The consolidation of our constitutional democracy requires acknowledgement and uprooting of the state capture embedded in the DNA of our political culture. At the heart of the political economy of colonialism, apartheid and post-apartheid ANC governance systems is the common thread of the use of political power to promote prosperity and wealth creation for a few at the expense of the majority of citizens.The frightening levels of state capture under President Jacob Zuma's leadership should not be seen in isolation from the political culture that made it possible for him to become president despite facing 783 charges of corruption. The ANC's first major procurement item as a government, the arms deal, was a mere curtain-raiser for the systematic use of state resources to finance the ANC as a party, and to reward its leaders for their involvement in the struggle for freedom and continuing loyalty. The ANC has perfected its predecessor's lessons of entitlement to rule and to abuse public resources. Successive colonial administrations under the Dutch and British focused on extracting maximum benefits for a few from our abundant indigenous resources: human, natural and mineral. Nothing was allowed to stand in the way of maximising returns for powerful elites who had unfettered access to those in public office. What was good for those early moguls the Van der Stels, Cecil John Rhodes, the Jamesons and later the Oppenheimers and others was seen to be good for the colony and the home country.The National Party government refined state capture into statecraft. The Broederbond, its think tank and brains trust, was a powerful political machine to ensure the capture, command and control of South Africa for the benefit of the Afrikaner volk. The successful eradication of white poverty and the building of a strong middle and upper class secured the perpetuation of NP dominance until 1994. This economic success was bought at the expense of silent acquiescence to human rights abuses against the majority indigenous population.It is significant that those who led the charge on the NP side in the negotiation of our political settlement were Afrikaner elites redeployed from business and academia. Their brief was to protect the foundations of capital accumulation and obstruct any redistributive policy framework designed to address the extreme poverty and inequality affecting the majority of people. Key business people worked patiently to shift the mindsets of the then less-experienced ANC leaders to get them to adopt market-friendly liberal economic policy frameworks. In her book White Power, Christi van der Westhuizen details how a business forum of key leaders created trust by building opportunities to promote class convergence with ANC leaders. N on-Afrikaner business organisations and corporations also played key roles in ensuring the protection of an economic system dominated by white-led corporations . The Reconstruction and Development Programme favoured by trade unions and progressive civil society groups to redress socioeconomic inequities - was marginalised. The demise of the RDP in the early years of the ANC government ensured that white economic power, capital and privileges were left intact. The elite compromise underpinning our 1994 political settlement pressured the ANC, in the interest of political power, to sacrifice redistribution and concomitant socioeconomic upliftment of the majority of citizens, while the NP exchanged political power for continuing white economic power. The cruel irony remains that the very people who rose from modest economic status only a generation or two earlier to become business moguls would devote so much energy to undermining policies to eradicate poverty policies similar to those that ensured the spectacular success of the Afrikaners. We are paying a heavy price for our failure to build the inclusive prosperous democracy the political settlement enshrined in our constitution. Our economy has failed to grow sustainably at a high enough rate to eradicate poverty and reduce the glaring inequities in our society. The anger, despair and loss of trust between citizens who have been denied the socioeconomic fruits of freedom is exploding all around us. Violence at interpersonal, domestic and public levels screams out the sense of betrayal they experience. Men who are emasculated by poverty, unemployment and inequality have turned into monsters, especially towards women and children. Corruption and a complete disregard for the ethics and accountability set out in our public-service legal framework are signs of alienation between leaders, public servants and the citizens they are meant to serve. The public service, with notable exceptions, has become a tool for looting from the highest office to the lowest workers. State-owned enterprises are being hollowed out with impunity. Self-enrichment and patronage systems to secure perpetuation of the "ruling party" in government characterise much of our country today.The ANC anticipated this state of affairs in its 1992 "Ready to Govern" report: "We are prevented from developing a national vision in terms of which we would see our country through the eyes of all its citizens and not just one group or the other." Why is the ANC in government still unable to "see our country through the eyes of all citizens"? The idea that the ANC is "a leader of society" and a "parliament of the people" has continued to blind the ANC from "seeing through the eyes of all citizens" - as was the case with the NP under apartheid. The focus of both parties is on asserting an entitlement to "rule". The blurring of boundaries between political party, government and state undermines the very foundations of our constitutional democracy. Citizens have by and large acquiesced to the notion of an inextricable link between the ANC and the success of our country as a democracy. Even good people within the ANC seem to be trapped by the notion that saving the ANC is essential to the resolution of the very problems the ANC created in 23 years as a governing party.The drafters of our constitution wisely embedded genetic re-engineering tools into the preamble to rebuild the society we imagined in 1994. The implementation of the commitments we made in that preamble as "We the people" is the most effective way to dismantle the DNA of state capture ingrained in multiple generations of citizens. We need to acknowledge and heal the wounds left gaping by the legacy of exclusion and human rights abuses to restore the dignity of all citizens so they can demand accountability. We need to establish democratic, open-society values through civic education programmes in all our schools, universities, work environments and places of worship. Embracing shared values would enable us to reconnect as fellow citizens and build trust and productivity as economic actors. We need to transform our socioeconomic system and invest in freeing the human potential of all citizens through high-quality education and skills training. State capture will end only when we assert our rights and exercise our responsibilities as citizens. The judicial system alone cannot protect us. We need to sharpen the tools our constitution offers us to genetically re-engineer our democracy into one inoculated against state capture. Ramphele is an activist, businesswoman, former vice-chancellor of the University of Cape Town and past MD of the World Bank