Durban funny man, leading a new generation of born-free comedians. In 2015 he won the Durban Young Guns comedy showdown and in 2016 he made his debut on national television. He's studying towards a master's degree in population and statistics at the University of KwaZulu-Natal.Come from?Port Shepstone.Passionate about?Comedy. It defines who I am.Current Project?Cape Town tour to Comedy Club.Life philosophy?It's not about the size of the dog in the fight, it's about the size in the dog.Mentor?Carvin H Goldstone. He's given a platform to many rising comics. And he's the only comic in South Africa who could fill up the Dome. Literally.Biggest success?When I won the stand-up comedy competition that's taking me to Cape Town.Dream job?A sold-out world tour.Greatest challenge?Funding.All time hero?Barcelona superstar Andr s Iniesta. He plays soccer like magic.Favourite app?Tinder. I like reading people's profiles and seeing all the lies they write about themselves.Treasured possession?Special moments that people give me are worth more than material things.Keeps you up at night?My thoughts and the silence. That's when I'm most creative.Fantasy client?Netflix. There's nothing bigger than that at the moment.Hailing from Mafikeng, 18 year old rapper Espacio Dios is making waves Down Under. His debut EP Backseat Galaxy found itself topping the iTunes Alternative chart when it was released at the beginning of the month. The EP also convinced Australian EDM producer Kilter to feature Dios on his latest track, Treasure.Your start in music?I've always wanted to be a musician. I hear sounds differently to most people and I try to figure out how they'd become good melodies.Biggest peeve about the music industry?It doesn't respect the art of music. It's usually all about money, not the talent that can manipulate the listener' s emotions. Music is a science and an art form that can move people emotionally. Money doesn't make good music but money can make people think that they're listening to good music.How do people, especially the older generation, perceive young people and music?Some older people don't like the thought of kids pursuing their dreams in music because of the unsettling stories about the music industry. I think that people have a choice to do whatever they want to do and that choice is theirs, whether it's good or bad - it's that person's choice to learn from. You should never project your fears onto someone else.Best piece of advice received?When Anatii told me not to change my sound and stay true to myself. That statement made me value the music I make even more. 'Backseat Galaxy' is available on iTunes.An acclaimed street dancer and influencer of urban culture, she's performed on every major stage in this country and has wowed foreign crowds.From?Eldorado Park, Soweto.Nicknames?TNT and Boom Boom, referencing my explosive energy on stage.First gig?Performing at a 21st birthday to Boom Shaka when I was four.Training?Jazz, Afrofusion and modern dance. These basic styles have carried through in my growth as a professional dancer. When I was 16 I joined the hip-hop crew B-Supreme.Gone international?After high school I travelled to Germany for a year as part of a production entertaining children and the elderly. I also did workshops at schools on self-esteem, racism and the use of drugs, and offered motivation for young people.Dream job?I've never had a 'normal' job in my life. No, I'm lying. I was a receptionist for three days then left. I was always listening to music and dancing in my chair. This is my dream job. Dancing has opened my life to people who provide encouragement and experiences I wouldn't otherwise have had the pleasure of being a part of.Mentors?Manthe Ribane, Lee-Ch Janecke, Sne Mbatha, J-Star, Tom London from Soweto's Finest and her dance teacher Gladys Agulhas.Career highlight?Touring with Die Antwoord - I'm touring with them for the fourth time this year, travelling to the Americas and Europe. And the Nike 'Believe in More' campaign for Nikewomen. - additional reporting bubblegumclub.co.zaAlthough he's not yet graduated from the Durban University of Technology (that happens at the end of this year), he's already been offered a place on the 2017 Durban Fashion Fair mentorship programme. He describes his label, Maj Designs, as sexy, sporty and smart.Hometown?Eshowe, a small town in KZN.What moves you?Fashion, gaming, anime and music.Working on?Durban Fashion Fair.Design philosophy?Image is everything.Mentors?Durban fashion designers Greg Wallis and Terrence Bray.Best moment?Winning best menswear 2016 at the Durban University of Technology fashion show and participating as one of the Design Indaba's creatives.Dream job?Working in the film industry designing costumes.Keeps you up at night?Sewing up for my range.Fantasy client?I'd like to dress Maps Maponyane and Victor Cruz.Last year's top graduate at the Jackie Cameron School of Food and Wine was offered her very first job - on Youth Day 2016 - at Luke Dale-Roberts's award- winning Cape Town restaurant, The Test Kitchen.Birth town?Born and grew up in Jozi.Passions?Food! Food! Food! Anything and everything about it. Eating, cooking, creating - I love it.Current project?Endlessly fermenting different vinaigrettes and playing with flavours since being gifted a 25-year-old Scoby (kombucha maker).Food philosophy?My two biggest influences in the culinary world so far are Jackie Cameron and Luke Dale Roberts who believe in local is lekker and the importance of seasonal ingredients.Mentor?My head chef, Ryan Cole. He makes me hungry to want to be a better chef.Biggest success?Securing my first job at the No 1 ranked restaurant in Africa.Dream job?I'm living it at The Test Kitchen. I thank my lucky stars every night.Icon?Grant Achatz (US chef and restaurateur - a leader in molecular gastronomy). The theatrical drama and mind games he introduces into every dish pushes food and the dining experience to its limits and beyond.Treasured possession?A beautiful clay spoon, a gift from chef Luke Dale Roberts. I have it on display on my bedroom shelf and I'll cherish it forever.Keeps you up at night?Thinking about tomorrow's prep list.Fantasy clients?A table for four - the ultimate chefs. Rene Redzepi, Grant Achatz, Massimo Bottura and Alex Atala.Cape Town-based fashion designer, established a company, Swagger Diariez, in 2011 with no formal training in fashion design. He started making clothes using his mother's sewing machine and now is a rising star in the fashion industry.From?Born and raised in Cape Town - Khayelitsha.Love to?Explore - I love asking uncomfortable questions and telling stories no one wants to tell. I use my passion for fashion to achieve that.Busy with?I recently moved into the first Imprint physical store and I'm busy renewing our online store which both launch after my show on July 29 at the Palms Decor and Lifestyle Centre in Woodstock.Philosophy for life?If it's not making life exciting, better or richer, it's not worth the effort.Dream job?I have it. I'm running my own company. The greatest thing that could happen right now would be getting international opportunities for the brand to have stores in places like London and New York.Greatest challenge?Getting recognised as a self-taught designer who's actually a qualified accountant.All-time hero?My mom. I look to her for love, for style inspiration and her life inspires strength and motivation in me. I'm just that person.Makes you nervous?The thought of having a day job having to report to someone at a set time and work under someone else's terms and conditions. It's my nightmare.Fantasy client?The West family - Kanye, Kim and North, she's very chic and would be a great model to introduce an Imprint range for kids.Favourite place in the world?My design studio. In my studio I can go anywhere and be whoever I want to be. Cape Town-based designer was a top 5 graduate at the Cape Town Fashion Council Graduate Shows and the runner-up in the Foschini Annual Design Awards. She's been a semi-finalist in the SAFW Renault New Talent Search 2013 and showcased her collections at Design Indaba and Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week.Hail from?Worcester.Passionate about?Thought-provoking garments and visual design.Current project?Fashion illustrations for a young adult sci-fi novel. My Spring/Summer 2018 collection.Design philosophy?Be clever and unexpected with contrasts in texture.Biggest success?Creating an original, identifiable South African fashion brand.Dream job?Creative director at Comme Des Gar ons, Balenciaga, Dior, or any couture brand with the infrastructure and funding for my imagination.Greatest challenge?Sustaining a fashion brand in South Africa.All time hero?Philippe Petit. A mad, passionate obsessive with a unique goal. He achieved his wild, imaginative and dangerous dream of tightrope-walking between the Twin Towers.Instagram perv?I only follow ballerinas, ballet schools, ballet photographers - my body goals. They have beautiful bodies, elegant, lithe muscular frames and graceful strength.Treasured possession?My parents and sisters.Keeps you up at night?Insomnia and restless soul syndrome. I waver between shallow sleep and half-watching movies or half-reading 10 books simultaneously. Sleep is a waste of time.Clich most relevant to you?Designers are fussy.Fantasy client?Lily-Rose Depp.Favourite place in the world?New York. This article was originally published in The Times.