While you may not want to cellar these for long, if you re after an uncomplicated wine best enjoyed while fresh, fruity and young, try these top picks:Arguably the king of pocket-friendly producers in the Breede River valley, Van Loveren s Sauvignon Blanc is made in a fragrant tropical style, so expect plenty of gooseberry and green fig character on the nose. At a shade over 12% it s fairly low in alcohol, and won t complain if you splash it over a few blocks of ice.Tired of over-oaked buttery Chardonnays? This palate-pleasing Unwooded Chardonnay from winemaker De Wet Viljoen is a perfect pairing for late-summer salads or grilled chicken. Grapes from 18-year-old vineyards were hand-harvested and fermented in stainless steel tanks for a wine that is fresh on the palate, with hints of pear and citrus. Drink now, or hold onto it for up to two years. Visit neethlingshof.co.zaThe first vines on this family-owned property outside Calitzdorp were planted way back in 1936, and today De Krans has built up an enviable reputation for both Port-style and table wines. Limited skin contact gives this Pinotage Rose a delightful watermelon-pink blush, with a nose of rose petals and strawberries. Delicate red fruit and fresh acidity make it a great option for the last warm days of autumn.Terra del Capo is the home of the Italian varietals in the Anthonij Rupert stable of wines. The grapes for the 2017 Pinot Grigio were picked from three separate vineyards, each contributing their own character to the wine: grapes from Groenekloof outside Darling bring fresh citrus flavours and structure, the Elandskloof beyond Piketberg contributes fresh apple and bright acidity, while vineyards from L Ormarins estate in Franschhoek bring the richness of stone fruits. An excellent food wine.The Breedekloof Wine Region is justifiably known as the home of Chenin Blanc, and while this latest release from Du Toitskloof Winery won t win too many medals, it s a pocket-friendly quaffer that ably introduces the region s signature grape. The vineyards were harvested at night to preserve plenty of freshness in the wine, which boasts plenty of tropical fruit notes on the nose and palate. Cellar master Shawn Thomson reckons it s a perfect match for grilled fish, mussels or a seafood potjie. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.