Unfortunately, that's where the good times ended.She whipped out a stainless-steel contraption and started excavating. Water and white dental shrapnel sprayed all over my face. She wasn't worried because she had a protective mask. Every three seconds she would stop quarrying to chastise me for being a cry-baby.When I made the appointment, all I wanted was to have the troublesome tooth extracted. Oh no, she had insisted, in her professional opinion the tooth could be saved.Let me get this out of the way: I don't believe dentists are all wannabe doctors who didn't make the academic cut to get into med school. And I'm not saying this because I've had particularly pleasant experiences with dentists in the past.But expecting a visit to the dentist to be pleasurable is no different from expecting the president to give you the value of pi to five decimal places. It's just not going to happen.My tumultuous relationship with dentists started at age 14. Years of stealing Granny's condensed milk and chewing on those sticky Wilson's Champion bricks had finally caught up with me.The dentist at Mpumalanga Clinic arrived only on Wednesdays. He must have worked extremely flexible hours because on the first Wednesday I went there, I arrived at the clinic around 9am and found a queue longer than those during the 1994 elections.An elderly man with a doek wrapped around his jaw mumbled something about the need to get there at 6am to be in the top 20.When the dentist finally sauntered in around 1.30pm, he immediately went on a lunch break. And then the House of Pain commenced. I'm convinced the screams of agony could be heard as far afield as the abattoir in Cato Ridge 18km away. I bet the cows lining up for their transformation into Big Mac Meals were going, "Thank God we're here and not there."A chunky nurse wearing what I assume was her little daughter's uniform ushered victims in and out of the torture chamber. And each time she appeared she yelled into the corridor: "The doctor will not stand for nonsense! If you move just once, he will send you home!"A few of the faint-hearted lost their nerve and walked out. And then the show was over at 4.30pm and we were told to return the following Wednesday. I headed home with mixed emotions: I had to endure another week of sleepless nights - but I'd been saved from a Guantanamo Bay experience.When my turn finally came, seven days later, I thought I was ready. But I wasn't. There was a waste-paper basket overflowing with bloody paper towels and cottonwool. The stench of chemicals wafted through the torture chamber. And I have never seen anything more menacing than the stainless-steel pliers he whipped out before snarling, "Open wide".When he pulled at the tooth, my whole body rose with it while I yelped like a puppy caught in barbed wire. Sister Chunky shoved my shoulders down, helping the separation of rotten tooth from jaw. I walked home whimpering, looking like a King Cheetah with two dried stripes from my eyes to the corners of my bloody mouth.And I swore to never eat another sweet for the rest of my life. Until my mom returned with a packet of Liquorice Allsorts that very Saturday.The second time I went to a dentist at least he had the decency to give me enough painkillers to sedate a blue whale.And then there was the dentist in downtown Pinetown who damn near dug out my whole lower left jaw because he hadn't bothered with an X-ray, which would have told him that my roots were more crooked than a JMPD officer.What compounded my anguish is that 10 minutes after I got home, still bleeding profusely, a pair of irritating young men in matching ties and white shirts knocked on the door. They said they were from Utah and were there to convince me to become a Mormon. This is despite the fact that our lounge was only one crucifix short of being an official shrine to the Virgin Mary.When I pointed this out they told me fables about Jesus enjoying lattes at Starbucks around the lower Manhattan area in the 40 days between His Resurrection and the Ascension.Back to the drill operator I saw last Tuesday. She reminded me of the most baffling idiosyncrasy of practically every dentist I have ever consulted with. At some point she had her entire hand inside my mouth, with some plug pressing down on my "troublesome tongue". And then it came; "OK, which tooth did you say is painful?"I pulled a Thamsanqa Jantjie on her. My sign language is not all it should be, but I believe I told her that I hope she's captured by Islamic State and they extract all her teeth sans anaesthetic. Follow the author of this article, Ndumiso Ngcobo, on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo