How would you describe your art?My art is a reflection of the way I perceive the world. I deal with themes of reality and illusion. At the moment, my subject matter is the natural landscape. My paintings are created using transparent layers of paint. I use layer upon layer upon layer of paint, resulting in dark, moody images.Where do you find your inspiration?By engaging with the world around me. I enjoy observing people, places and situations. I am always jotting down notes, collecting images, ideas, words and moments, all of which move me in some way. Eventually, I attempt to arrange and organise my ideas and thoughts and express them through my painting.You are a painter and a photographer. Do the two skills complement each other?I use photography and painting for different reasons and for different projects. With both mediums, a subject is framed in a particular way. When I'm painting, everything I see looks like a painting, which I don't find with photography. My photography, which is my personal way of seeing and framing moments, informs my paintings.Your favourite things to do in Paris?The things I don't do in South Africa - walking through the streets, exploring and discovering the city, any time of the day or night. Visiting a museum and viewing a painting by one of my favourite artists whenever I like is the biggest treat. Lately, I've been reading about creatives who have experienced living in Paris - Hemingway's A Moveable Feast, Moon and Sixpence (a novel based on Paul Gauguin) and the biography of Coco Chanel. It's interesting to create comparisons between the past and the present.What do you miss about Cape Town?Besides the comfort of home and the natural beauty, I miss the energy of the city. South Africa seems to be in motion. In Paris, the emerging creatives lie in the shadows of the Masters, whereas in Cape Town, where "art" hasn't fully infiltrated into the mass culture of SA, there is a sense of freedom when it comes to creating. In your experience, what's the best thing about making art?Knowing that I am doing something that I love; expressing myself and being true to myself. Whether I like what I'm creating or not, the act of creating something is a reflection of what is going on in my head, in my world and of my experience of life. When the final product resonates with me, the feeling is unexplainable.Advice for aspiring artists?Be sincere and true to yourself. Trust yourself and let creating be a freeing experience. If you have something to say, don't overthink it and don't try to intellectualise it. Trust your instinct and it will reflect in your work. Be brave and take risks. Do it because you love it and because you believe in it. And do it with all your heart. Zarah Cassim is represented by 99 Loop in Cape Town.