That the 41-year-old should be intimidated by anything - let alone a few dozen metres of luxury pile - is surprising. She's an Oscar-winning actress and producer, an intrepid humanitarian, and insanely, imperiously beautiful in the flesh."I remember the first time I ever walked down the Cannes red carpet," she recalls, "and I really did feel nervous because, whereas at the Oscars you have other people dressed to the nines walking down it with you, so you feel a little bit safer, in Cannes you're by yourself - and it's just wall-to-wall photographers."Having that many flashes on you, and your name screamed like that, there is absolutely nothing normal about it."This year Theron isn't promoting a film at the festival, but a campaign: jewellery brand Chopard's quest to achieve sustainable luxury.After the 157-year-old jewellery house joined forces with actor Colin Firth's wife Livia - head of Eco-Age, a consultancy that delivers sustainable solutions for luxury brands - Caroline Scheufele, co-president of the Swiss jewellery house, came up with the idea of a "green carpet", on which A-listers were able to showcase the products of Chopard's Fairmined gold and diamond initiatives.So, when Chopard approached Theron with a Fairmined suite of jewels named the Garden of Kalahari - made from a 342-carat diamond in the rough found in the Karowe Mine in Botswana - the actress realised how powerful the symbolism of those gems could be."The Kalahari runs into Namibia, which is where my family is from," Theron explains. "And the Orange River that runs through that mine, I used to swim in as a kid, so from the start this was personal to me."Neither could have imagined the impact the sight of Theron in the mismatching Gardens of Kalahari D-Flawless diamond earrings (25-carat and pear-shaped on one side and 26-carat and heart-shaped on the other) would have. From the moment the actress stepped onto the red carpet at the Oscars social media erupted."People still ask me about those earrings today," Theron says.''You can't avoid the exquisiteness of them. And then to have this lovely story, about how the stones were brought onto the red carpet, was perfect."Wearing jewels of such inestimably high value (Chopard have always refused to name a figure for security reasons) didn't come without its trepidation."I didn't even wear those earrings walking out of my house and driving in the car to the Oscars," she laughs."They were in their box with their own seat in the limo, and only as we pulled up at the red carpet did I put them on."Although she was supposed to take them off after the ceremony, she couldn't bring herself to go to the Vanity Fair party without them. "I kept thinking, 'I can't take these off. People are loving them!' So they only came off when I was eating a burger in the car."Now that Theron is educated on the subject of sustainable luxury, she's not just disinclined to wear jewels or garments whose provenance is not 100% transparent and sustainable, but more or less unable to."Take fur, for example. I would never wear it because I would need a small lobotomy to erase the reality of what goes into that. As soon as I understand that there is unfairness behind something, I can't be involved in it."Has celebrity magnified that responsibility?''We all have to go bed and sleep with our own minds. If you have a conscience, an awareness of the world, and an interest in things other than yourself, I think behaving responsibly becomes something unavoidable."I trust in humanity. I trust that when presented with an alternative, people generally choose the right way." - The Sunday Telegraph This article was originally published in The Times.