Scientific studies have proven the nutritious value of the Cape snoek - something fish vendors from the Western Cape have always known. Now they are concerned that big corporates might net all the fish for well-heeled consumers who are always on the hunt for the next health fad. Cape snoek is a healthy cheap and high-protein food source with a high content of omega-3 fatty acids concludes one 2016 report.The scientists Sun Henning from the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Department of Food Technology and Louwrens Hoffman from Stellenbosch University's Department of Animal Sciences concluded that Cape snoek contains similar amounts of fat to pink salmon and a carbohydrate content of only 0.7%.They took samples of 10 flecked snoek caught at Stompneus Bay in Cape Town in June last year and collected from Die Visfabriek in Brackenfell.Samples from the left side of the flecked snoek were kept raw while the right side of the fish were placed into a plastic bag and cooked in boiling water.The study showed that cooked snoek contains a protein content of 24.5% while raw snoek had less protein and a higher fatty acid content.Rafiek Isaacs has sold snoek at Kalk Bay harbour for 12 years and said he barely gets sick. The key to his vitality is snoek. It's healthy it's good for your heart for your bones and your marrow and for your skin. We've known this since before we were born our grandfathers knew this said Isaacs. If I look at a Capetonian he doesn't really get sick. Colds don't really get us even a fisherman eats a lot of fish and he's healthy. He said that a 4 kilogram snoek will sell at prices ranging from R80 R120 whereas a 2 kg yellowtail will cost at least R120.But he is concerned that once people become aware of the nutritional value of snoek he will no longer be able to sell the fish. Now people are going to see snoek is a very healthy fish then big companies are going come and buy all the snoek. Then the government is going to say you (small scale fishermen) can't catch snoek anymore the snoek needs to be caught by the factories because that's where the money comes from said Isaacs. - TMG Digital/TimesLIVE