The last thing coach Allister Coetzee requires is a winter of discontent and even though the French were their own worst enemies, his charges delivered a decent performance that can be improved upon. They showed a killer instinct absent last year by scoring three match-turning tries after a hour when French fullback Brice Dulin was sin-binned for a professional foul. There was also the positive contribution from the seven Lions players and the assured performances from the four debutants that will give Coetzee plenty to work with for Saturday s second test at Kings Park.The confidence and the belief in their new beginning mantra was seen in the clear and inventive attacking patterns in the first 20 minutes. While Jesse Kriel could have done better in the 10th minute when he wasted a two-man overlap, the Boks had attacking direction they missed at the same stage last year.With Ross Cronje providing snappy and crisp service, Elton Jantjies directed proceedings with exuberance and imagination not often seen in him in the green and gold. There were mistakes but for the first time he looked like he was allowed to take charge.Once the early South African storm had fizzled out the direct-running French took charge and Courtnall Skosan did well to contest Jules Plisson s dangerous crosskick directed to No8 Louis Picamoles on the wing in the 25th minute. Through Siya Kolisi s alertness at the breakdown a minute later the Boks found themselves deep in the French half even though Kolisi s decision to pass early to Cronje before he could draw Dulin was poor. The try came six minutes later through Kriel when Coetzee broke through weak French tackles before offloading to man-of-the-match Malcolm Marx, who found Kriel haring along on his outside.The French response was inevitable and immediate, with Henry Chavancy benefiting from the kind bounce of Yoann Huget s 35th-minute chip that confounded the Boks.That, with nervous debutant Raymond Rhule rushing out of line in the movement that led to the Plisson crosskick, were the only concerns, even though Marx s lineout accuracy leaves a lot to be desired.But he was immense in open play and on the ground alongside the effervescent Kolisi and the efficient Teboho Mohoje.Keeping it up in the second half was always going to be tough, and the Boks did well to keep a 43rd-minute rolling maul at bay.The French also had luck, especially when Huget got in the way of a 50th-minute pass meant for Skosan. From there, they created their own fortune five minutes later through a bad missed tackle by Kriel on his opposite number Chavancy, from where replacement scrumhalf Baptiste Serin crossed the whitewash. While the build-up to the Springboks penalty try on the hour was slick, from Kolisi turning the ball over and the anonymous Jan Serfontein putting in a decent grubber, the try was contentious. Skosan would have beaten Dulin to the ball but whether he would have dotted it down was another question.Referee Glen Jackson not only awarded the try but sin-binned Dulin in what was a rare application of the law.A minute later, captain fantastic Warren Whiteley, Marx and Cronje combined for a superb try with Whiteley snatching the long lineout throw before passing to his Lions teammate. In the lead up to his 13th test in charge of the Springboks coach Allister Coetzee stopped short of asking for last year s dirty dozen to be wiped from memory.He no long tacitly implied that the slate be wiped clean after his side beat France 37-14 in the first test, he said it out loud. We closed the chapter on 2016, said Coetzee. I chose the best possible squad for this test series. We are moving in the right direction. Whether on defence or attack, or kicking game. This is a team that does not play to lose. It is about baby steps. That comment would have resonated with captain Warren Whiteley whose second child was born last week. Whiteley gave a timely reminder that they merely won the battle, but that the war was still in the balance. We have to keep our feet on the ground. This was only the first test in a series of three. Coetzee this year has made no bones of incorporating elements which have helped make the Lions South Africa s foremost Super Rugby franchise. There now is a brotherhood, the guys are playing for each other, the coach borrowed an often used line in Lions press conferences. When you look at the score it suggests that the Springboks had achieved all their objectives with aplomb. The devil, however, is sometimes in the detail.They had exerted a fair amount of control over the Tricolores, but France somehow kept a nagging presence before a yellow card to fullback Brice Dulin in the 60th minute gave the home side free passage to the final whistle. France coach Guy Noves was philosophical about the penalty try. There is not much to say. The referee was quite logical in his decision. Though Coetzee was loath to venture down Memory Lane, he clearly learnt lessons from last season.He made significant additions to his coaching staff and his personnel on the field, and the improvements were particularly evident in defence.Yesterday was a building block on which Coetzee and Co can construct. They will, however, have to make improvements along the way, starting next weekend in Durban when France are likely to field a side much closer to what they may deem their best.Next week the Boks can expect France s regular captain Guilhem Guirado to stir his troops in a match that could give the hosts momentum for the rest of the season, or bring back the demons from last year. Liam del Carme