And South Africa brimmed with pride when international animal rights organisations chose Limpopo as the place where the battered big cats would live out the rest of their days in comfort and care at a carefully selected sanctuary.But just one year after they arrived in South Africa, tragedy struck: two of the lions were slaughtered; their heads, paws and tails hacked off by poachers.The killing of the "inseparable best friends" on Monday last week has left staff at Emoya Big Cat Sanctuary reeling and has renewed debate on the trade in lion body parts."What our eyes saw that day our hearts will never unsee," said Minuette Heuser, who runs the sanctuary with her daughter, Savannah.She said the two lions, Liso and Jose, had been "extreme special-needs cases". Years of abuse had taken their toll. There was brain damage, visual impairment and poor co-ordination. As a result of their treatment, the lions were also extremely aggressive. Liso and Jose had lived most of their lives in a circus in Peru, where they were caged, beaten and unloved.Jose, who took the brunt of the abuse, was worse off, and Liso would often lead him around.Their dramatic rescue last year made headlines across the world. Operation Spirit of Freedom had taken Animal Defenders International (ADI) 10 years to plan and involved rescuing 33 lions from circuses in Colombia and Peru. After 20 months, the big cats travelled to OR Tambo International Airport in a Boeing 747.At the sanctuary they met Savannah, known by some as "the redheaded girl who loves lions". Savannah knew from the age of 14 that she wanted to work with big cats. She was just 16 when she was granted a permit, with Minuette's assistance, to open a sanctuary on the family farm in Limpopo.Within three years she had eight big cats in her care. Then she was contacted by ADI and asked if she would take on 33 more. It was a match made in heaven, and the lions blossomed under her care in the African bush."We welcomed them with open arms and love them as our family," said Savannah, who admitted she had not yet dealt with the killings "mentally or emotionally".She said she and Minuette had set out with two volunteers on Monday morning as normal to feed the lions.Minuette said: "When I got to the enclosure they weren't waiting as usual. When they didn't come when I called them I knew something was wrong." A few metres away she saw the butchered bodies."Shock can't even describe what we felt when we saw them," said Savannah. The volunteers were immediately taken away before they could see the atrocity."We went through the entire sanctuary to make sure all the other cats were OK. We were terrified others had been hurt," Minuette said.After feeding the other lions, staff were evacuated to ensure forensic evidence was not disturbed. Liso and Jose had shared an "incredibly close bond and were joined at the hip", Savannah said. "It is a very traumatic time for all of us at Emoya. This isn't a business and our lions become family. It's a very personal attack and loss for us."The terrible slaughter of wildlife in South Africa and the rest of Africa continues to reach desperate proportions. Poachers are getting bolder and every sanctuary and park has now become a target."ADI vice-president Tim Phillips said Liso and Jose had been very close."They really looked after each other. They loved to cuddle and always slept together. Any time they had to be separated, for example for medical reasons, they would be very unhappy."Phillips said that although the pair were the most aggressive lions he had ever encountered when they were rescued, they had calmed down quickly and had slowly begun to trust people. "They had blossomed since arriving at Emoya."steenkampt@sundaytimes.co.za