What are the main things to consider when deciding to install a fireplace? First, decide where you'd like to install your fireplace and then consider how your flue pipe should be installed. Once you've decided that, you need to choose what type of fireplace to install. Various factors, such as heating requirements, type of fuel and aesthetics, to name a few, will affect this decision.What is the difference between a closed and open fireplace?A closed-combustion fireplace is a fireplace where the combustion happens behind a sealed glass door. It is fitted with primary and secondary air regulators, which allows you to control the burn rate and energy output. Closed-combustion fireplaces are as a rule up to 60% more efficient than open-combustion fireplaces, where there is no oxygen control.What are the different fuel sources and which will work best for me?There are multiple heating fuel sources to consider, the most common being gas, wood log and wood pellet. Some of the most important factors to think about are fuel availability, efficiency, storage space and running cost.How do you know what size fireplace to install?The general rule of thumb is that 1kW will on average heat 25m of space. So the first thing to do is calculate the space you want to heat in cubic metres, taking into account any open spaces leading from the room. You can then divide the total cubic metres by 25, which will give you the amount of kilowatts necessary to heat the specific environment to 20 C, which is the average.Can I use my fireplace if the power is out?Wood- and gas-burning fireplaces can function without electricity, whereas pellet fireplaces can be retrofitted with a backup UPS system.Does a fireplace create odours, and how can I avoid this?Open-combustion fireplaces usually create a smoke smell, so this is best avoided with a closed-combustion fireplace.Any tips for cleaning or maintaining a fireplace?To avoid costly repair or maintenance expenses in the long run, service your fireplace before and after seasonal use. This should include a chimney sweep and maintenance of components. Calore is the exclusive distributor of top Italian fireplace brand Piazzetta in South Africa. Visit calore.co.za