Is there anything to deter them from acts of corruption?From where I'm standing, no.Because even if they're caught the consequences will be negligible?Indeed. Whether it's in terms of internal disciplinary processes or even when they're facing criminal charges. As you will have noted our recent meeting with the ACTT (anticorruption task team) was a shocker. If this is the lead instrument with which government fights corruption, and you look at the list of concluded cases they brought before us, it said to us: "We might not be getting anywhere."Have you called Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe to tell you why his so-called anticorruption drive is going nowhere?Not yet. We're meeting him on Wednesday.Why has it taken so long?We only met the ACTT late last year, and that meeting was shambolic.Why didn't you immediately summon the minister to explain?Well, good question. At a tactical level, at what point do you do that?Immediately?We did that with correctional services and we are intending to do that with water affairs.Again, why has it taken you so long?We met with the department and we called them again and we have reached a point where we are now satisfied that officials are failing to do their work.Would you agree that the central weakness of the anticorruption drive is that ministers have not been held to account?In relation to the ACTT, the sense one gets is that it lacks political leadership.So why haven't you called the minister in charge of the so-called national anticorruption strategy to explain?The letter that was sent to the ACTT for next week's meeting seeks to take us deeper into the administrative challenges. Because when you engage with the political leadership you must be able to say, "These are the administrative weaknesses." Beyond merely saying, "This thing is failing. What are the gaps that are there?"Shouldn't you have begun asking these questions years ago? Haven't you been the chairman of Scopa for around seven years?Our oversight approach has been evolving.Meanwhile corruption has become endemic. Would it be fair to say you've let the country down?We could have done better, we should have done better and we must do better.So why didn't you do better? What was stopping you?Oversight is a political process, not an administrative process. What you are able to do as a committee is determined by the people you have around you, their commitment, their consciousness and their attitude towards work.Are you talking about the ruling party MPs on your committee?I'm talking about everybody. But we've built on the experience of the past and are able to do much more now than in the past. When I came in, it had all the hangover from the arms deal and the infighting from that.Another example of where Scopa allowed the executive to dictate?Primarily because oversight is a political function.Are you saying your committee is answerable to political ...?Most definitely.Answerable to the executive?No, to the political parties.To the ruling party?Even the conduct of those not from the ruling party in the past has not been helpful. But now they are saying: "Let's focus on the job at hand."Has it become easier for them to hold ministers and officials accountable than before?That's not the totality of the picture.Why have they suddenly found their backbones?In relation to the majority party, the whip that we have is able to do political engagement with the leadership of the ANC in a way that others before him did not do.Did your personal closeness to the ANC make Scopa less effective?Closeness in terms of what?Being soft on them?In relation to our work in Scopa, I have not been soft.Why did your own party accuse you of being soft?An individual in the party made that allegation, not the party.What kind of watchdog is it where members thank minister Bathabile Dlamini for her answers when they're transparently dishonest?I'm not sure if that happened in Scopa. If anything we've had a not-so-good interaction with the minister where she had a lot of negative things to say about the committee.What kind of watchdog is it where she is defended from opposition attempts to put her on the spot?Her experience in Scopa was raised in the highest echelons of the ANC, arising out of the toughness of our engagement with her and the pressure and scrutiny put on her by the committee.So why was she allowed to lead the country to the edge of the cliff over grant payments?The involvement of Scopa in this arose when we had a hearing in November about an irregular payment by her to CPS. It was only from there that we took up the issue.