Although near broke SA Rugby needs a cash injection more than ever, World Rugby is unlikely to yield to sentiment when the host nation for the 2023 Rugby World Cup (RWC) is unveiled on November 15.Moreover, France and Ireland's arguments may equally resonate with those charged with sourcing the most suitable host.Hosting rights have traditionally rotated between the hemispheres but with Japan being awarded the 2019 RWC that sequence is out of kilter.SA Rugby will argue that they have a strong bid that ticks the requisite boxes. Like the other two they have secured a guarantee of 120-million (R1.73-billion) and much of the infrastructure to stage an event is in place."We don't have to build projects," said SA Rugby president Mark Alexander. "The pitches, however, will all have to be upgraded."If we don't stage the tournament in 2023, it will be very difficult to do it thereafter because the costs of upgrading will be very high."The fact that the rand punches in a division well below the US dollar helps South Africa's claims. SA Rugby is keen to remind that those travelling here armed with euros, dollars and pounds will have considerably more bang for their buck.Alexander claims South Africa can sell 2.9million tickets. Ireland apparently can sell 2.1 million and France have projected ticket sales of about three million.What counts against the country, however, is that its standing in the rugby community has taken a pounding. The Springbok is no longer held in the high esteem it once was, and there is a fear that as hosts they may well fail to reach the business end of the event.It is worth noting though, despite falling well short on the field in two of the last three World Cups, as hosts France and England were still able to put on a show of it.France and Ireland hold the advantage that the bulk of the tourists they are likely to attract to the event would have to do so from relatively short distances.However, the one factor that may militate against the event being staged in Europe is the frequency at which terror attacks occur on the continent.That South Africa may be considered less of a security risk is rich with irony.France, which for the longest time has been the most popular tourist destination, has become less attractive but its ambassador to South Africa, Christophe Farnaud, argued that the numbers are back up."In the short term yes, the numbers went down, but France has recovered as a tourism destination. Last year was good."He explained that the attacks have galvanised France, the results of which could be seen at the recent polls."There has been a real show of unity. There is a common collective identity despite the harsh debates of the elections."We have a long tradition of hosting major sports events. This is why the men's handball, ice hockey world cups, the surfing world championships and water skiing all take place in France this year. We have the expertise and the know-how."He didn't need to lay bare France's rugby credentials but he did so nonetheless. "We have more than 1,800 rugby clubs with 430,000 members to the French Federation, but we know we are not the only credible candidate."Ireland's bid hit a wobble last week when it was revealed they need additional emergency legislation for their bid to be considered.The Independent in Ireland reported that their government is now under "extreme time pressure" to ensure specific guarantees sought by the organising body.Their bid has other limitations. In Croke Park, they have a venue that seats 85,000 people (third biggest in Europe), but it is their only venue with a capacity larger than 52,000. That places constraints on their ticket sales.There will, however, be considerable clamour for the event to be hosted in Ireland. World Rugby is based in Dublin, and although RWC matches have been played in Ireland, the country is yet to host the event.The Irish are deeply passionate and their heightened state of fervour is by no means confined to the stadium. They may not be able to deliver the best-attended RWC, but Ireland would surely be a memorable host.sports@timesmedia.co.za