But how, I asked him, did he keep his spirits up in a country overflowing, especially now, with the slime of corruption revealed daily about how the Guptas have captured President Jacob Zuma? A few weeks ago I had put heart and soul into a cover article in Financial Mail about how we could get onto the path of inclusive growth, with business, labour and the state all surrendering things they hold dear so that we might better guarantee a future for ourselves and our children. But what was the point of even trying if the state was too busy looting to listen? Nonsense, he said. South Africa is brimming with good and creative people determined to get us right. I let him talk about the future. It was both scary and marvellous. We spoke about technology. In 10 years the motor industry will be unrecognisable. Fossil-fuelled vehicles will be all but extinct in the developed world and even if you factor in how slow we are to adapt and give us 20 years, where will our jobs be? What will happen to petrol-pump attendants? To truck drivers? To coal miners? To platinum miners? Will shopping malls still be viable? He reminded me that a mutual acquaintance had just opened a R500-million factory in Gauteng that is so automated it will employ just five people. And when electric cars become viable here, what will happen to car ownership and the jobs of people producing and servicing them? You could simply order a driverless electric car on your phone and leave it at your destination. Are we even nearly ready for this near future? Of course not. If you're five years old today, born to a poor family, what hope on earth will you have of ever finding work in your own country? I checked my Twitter feed after lunch ended. The latest unemployment figures showed that in the year to end-March, unemployment in South Africa had risen to a 13-year high of 27.7%. That pushes the real figure closer to 40%. I bumped into another friend. I told him about the conversation I had just had. The only answer, he said, was a basic income grant, which I have often advocated, though to little response. A basic income grant recognises a simple fact: that very soon there will be even fewer jobs around than there are today, and that, in a variety of iterations, the state will have to pay everyone a salary. It is an idea much discussed but seldom acted upon. But the jobless economy (in the way we understand jobs and economies today) is just around the corner. At the moment we have around nine million fellow citizens out of work. In 20 years that could double. And there is nothing we can do about it. I just cannot see that we have an industrial future certainly not a labour-intensive one in South Africa, perhaps with the exception of food processing. Even in mining, coal for electricity and platinum for catalytic converters will be obsolete. There'll be a service economy of sorts, but even that will inevitably become automated and informal. All there will be left is tourism and the bureaucratic mountain people have to climb to get here. Paying people a basic income grant of just R2,000 a month would use the entire budget we currently have and we are nowhere near prepared for that. The only way to do it quickly would be a massive savings drive, a sovereign wealth fund financed by the earnings from the exports we still have, and higher taxes for people lucky enough to have work. That could conceivably be done by a clean and efficient government, but not by one stealing from its own people. I don't know how much money has been removed from the country by the Gupta/Zuma conspiracy (the figure doing the rounds is R6-billion) but it could at least have been used to prepare the ground for a sovereign fund. We have pretty much run out of time. But, as my friend taught me at lunch this week, we have not run out of hope. This is still a great country. And still worth fighting for.