Those with a penchant for France will find it hard to resist a cruise on Uniworld River Cruises' new ship Joie de Vivre, which was officially christened at a ceremony in March.Described by the company as "a travelling boutique hotel", the luxurious ship has an indoor pool that turns into a cinema and butlers trained to "Buckingham Palace standards".Dining options on board include the elegant Le Restaurant Pigalle and the vinoth que La Cave de Vins for wine-pairing dinners and private dining.An eight-day round-trip cruise from Paris on the River Seine includes excursions to Monet's Garden in Giverny and the Normandy Beaches. Uniworld has a special offer for Sunday Times readers for a seven-night cruise from Paris to Normandy and back for R48,790, about 30% off the normal fare. Includes six days of shore excursions. Phone 011-280-8450 or see uniworld.com.The iconic beauty of the Rhine is well documented. But did you know that among the 40 castles that line the 65km-stretch of the Middle Rhine Valley is Burg Maus (Mouse Castle), which got its nickname from the Counts of Katzenelnbogen, who built the nearby Burg Katz (Cat Castle)?You can see both on AmaKristina, AmaWaterways' new river ship, sailing the Rhine between Amsterdam in the Netherlands and Basel, Switzerland. There are weekly departures, including nine wine-themed trips for those who fancy touring vineyards and joining expert-led tastings. AmaWaterways is represented in SA by Cruises International, which is offering up to $300 discount on cruises of seven nights or longer booked between June 1-30 2017. The discount is combinable with cruise-line promotions that may be on offer in June. See cruises.co.za or call your travel agent. Proving that river cruising isn't just about watching the world go by, Avalon Waterways has new Active Discovery cruises on the Danube that include ballroom-dancing classes in Vienna, cycling in Budapest and hiking in Danube-Ipoly National Park in Hungary or along a border route between Germany and Austria used by smugglers during World War 2.The nine-day sailings between Linz, Austria, and Budapest, Hungary, also include beer, cheese-and-wine tastings, cooking classes in Vienna and the chance to sample chocolates and desserts at Budapest's celebrated Caf Gerbeaud. From $2,769 per person. See avalonwaterways.com.A new take on speciality dining has found its way to the rivers of Europe. Passengers on board the new Crystal Mozart river ship will be taken ashore to dine at top-rated establishments in Vienna or Budapest. A complimentary meal at their choice of restaurant (there are eight, four in each city) will be offered - although diners can eat at others if they wish, at their own expense. Thompsons Holidays has a 10-night round-trip cruise from Vienna aboard Crystal Mozart from August 13-23 for R76,733 per person. Call 011-770-7677 or e-mail travel@thompsons.co.za.There are two good reasons for cruising the Douro: to learn about port-wine production and then to taste the popular libation. Happily, you can do both on Miguel Torga, a new CroisiEurope river ship which launched in April with a sun-deck pool.It does round trips from Porto, Portugal, with optional port tasting in Pinhao, a trip to the Mateus Palace, famed as the face of Portugal's ros wine even though it has never been produced there, and cycling around the historical old town of Salamanca in Spain. Selected drinks on board are included. Various departures from 1,021 per person (six days) to 1,879 (eight days). See croisieurope.co.uk. Five glorious days drinking Belgian beer await those who join CroisiEurope's Liquid Gold cruise from Brussels to Ostend departing on August 28 2017.There will be tours and tastings at five breweries and at the Maison des Brasseurs in Brussels, which houses a museum dedicated to the amber nectar, as well as on-board lectures from a Belgian beer expert and a chance to sample Bourgogne des Flandres, a red-brown beer that is aged for several months in wooden barrels. The cruise visits Antwerp, Ghent, Lovendegem and Bruges, pictured below. From 889 per person. See croisieurope.travel.Shallow water has traditionally deterred river-cruise operators on the Elbe. To get around this, CroisiEurope built a paddle-wheel boat, the Elbe Princesse, with a shallow draught that enables it to dock in Berlin and Prague, on the Havel and Vltava rivers respectively.The cruise line will launch a second ship on the river in February 2018.Highlights include Wittenberg, Meissen and Dresden, Germany, and, in Saxon Switzerland, a stretch that passes beneath the region's dramatic sandstone rock formations. CroisiEurope has two departures each way in July and October between Berlin and Prague, with fares from 1,769 per person for the nine-day voyage. See croisieurope.travel.Free tours of the Kremlin, the Hermitage and Moscow's metro are among the highlights of Viking River Cruises' Waterways of the Tsars voyage between Moscow and St Petersburg.Russia is where the Viking River Cruises story began, 20 years ago. The company now has four river ships sailing the lakes, canals and rivers that link the two cities. On board, and ashore, passengers will gain insight into the Russian language, its history and culture and also its cuisine.In St Petersburg, where the Bolshevik revolutionaries seized power 100 years ago, complimentary tours of the Catherine Palace and a memorable night at the ballet await. This year's voyages are almost all sold out - unless you have 7,495 per person to spare for a stateroom. However, fares for voyages from Moscow to St Petersburg in October 2018 are currently being offered with a 1,000 discount at 2,595 if booked before June 30. See vikingcruises.co.uk. - The Sunday Telegraph