The southern autumn is upon us. It was my dad's favourite time of year. He revelled in the cool brightness of each blue-sky day. But since he died, some two years ago, the crispness of the season has made me ever more conscious of how much I mourn him.He died a long, slow death of cancer, which was highly traumatic for him, even though he kept up his courage until the very last seconds. I had not realised how harrowing it was for the rest of us, especially for my mother.That trauma, which every one of us on this planet will experience, creates a deep cellular and emotional memory that those who are living with the death of a parent, or anyone close, tell me never really goes away. It haunts you at the most unexpected of times: when you are driving a car, loading the groceries into the boot, or just walking along the street. The grief comes sweeping through, often with a force that drives tears from your eyes and strangles the breath in your throat. You go on, of course - you have to - but now you have a constant companion, a doppelg nger of memory and emotion that erupts inside you at the strangest times.It is a new way of life, a new identity that you have to live with. And yet, there is something necessary to living this way. At first, it is a howling storm of agony, rage and fear. Loss is what we call this thing, but it is a many-layered inescapable hell that we have to navigate. We have to balance it with our other life, the one of hope and busy-ness, of career stress and financial burdens, of illness and fun-filled dinner parties, or of sun-soaked holidays and sometimes unhappy children whom we must guide to self-acceptance and growth. Grief doesn't stop for real life.I don't think we can ever say that grief heals - at least for me that has never been true - but it is a road you cannot avoid. Death leaves you no choice but to travel it. You have reached a point in your life where you will know more truly than ever before what it means to be human.But over time, as the unavoidable pain forces you down this road, you begin to learn something entirely new. As you travel deeper into the awful truth of emptiness and loss, you discover a new way of loving that begins to grow inside you.It is little more than a gentle whisper at first, almost inaudible through the hurricane of grief. I heard it first in the still emptiness of my dad's workshop. It was filled with a lifetime's collection of his much-loved tools and half-finished projects.He was an engineer and loved working with his hands. He did woodwork, fixed cars, and came up constantly with ideas on how to improve rubble collection, the transport of sugar, even the railway spikes that hold the rails to the sleepers.He was a poet with machines, he could look at their gleaming or sometimes rusty parts and understand what made them work. In many ways I first learned how to write by working alongside him as a child in his workshop.As I watched the precise way he cut and planed wood or reassembled a carburettor, the joy it gave him to do these things taught me to do the same with words. They too need careful precision and accurate assembly, and when I do that properly I get the same sense of joy I did while watching him all those years ago.Weeks after his death I stood alone in his empty workshop, a place where no one would ever work again.Sadness welled up in me, and yet, at the same time, I felt the first faint stirrings of an unfamiliar joy. The gifts he had given me through his love of tools and work were how he lived on inside me. I had always loved him, very deeply, and I had feared and raged against that loss while he was still alive. But now he was gone, and in the half-light of his empty workshop, I understood that I had learned a new way to love him.I'm not gifted like he was with tools, but over the years of my youth he taught me enough to look at problems around the house: a dripping tap, a light switch that doesn't work, a drain that is blocked, and have a pretty good idea of how to fix it. I certainly can't fix everything, but what I can achieve is because of him.And so real life goes on. But my dad is with me always. I have some of his old spanners and screwdrivers from the workshop, and I know that my fingers are touching his as I tighten a bolt or undo a crooked screw.I don't literally hear his voice, but I know what he would say, and I know how pleased he would be to see me working with his tools. His presence is very intensely with me then. I consciously open up to that inner reality and I love him more deeply than I had ever imagined possible.I cannot change the fact that he is gone, and sadness often wells up inside me, but I know that this love for him and his presence in my life now is more than nostalgia, it is an ongoing, lived experience of joy.The other night I woke gently in the cool, silent darkness of a moonless night. As I lay there I remembered how it had been, and felt, too, the emptiness of how it could never be again."Please think of me sometimes when I'm gone," he whispered to me in the last hours of his weakening, pain-racked days.Dad, you are with me every day, and so too, in the enchanted night when I am woken from sleep to my memories of love and wonder.