Donning a cape is an even riskier proposition but Swati Mandela, granddaughter of the former first lady, Winnie, in partnership with fashion designer Roi Kaskara, is hoping her new fashion house Swati by Roi Kaskara will have women channelling their elegance rather than looking world-weary."For me, putting on one of our garments is like putting on armour - it makes you stand tall and feel really good," said Mandela.Her foray into fashion has been 20 years in the making - her initial plan was to design a line of shoes. Over time that idea evolved through many other forms before she settled on making scarves, capes and handbags."I love scarves and grew up with them. My grandmother and mother are always wearing scarves so it seemed like a natural fit," said Mandela.The fulfilment of her dream came a step closer when she met bespoke men's suit purveyor Kaskara. "When I met Roi and I saw the beautiful suits he makes I thought that I'd love to collaborate with him. I told him I wanted to 'power dress' women," she said. "In African culture women like to wrap themselves, so I wanted to do a modern take on the wrap, scarf and blanket, adding a chic twist to it. We're making our scarves for women in the boardroom, for CEOs, or for housewives who want to look stylish during their busy days."A post shared by Swati Mandela by Roi kaskara (@swatimandela) on May 23, 2017 at 3:48am PDTA post shared by Swati Mandela by Roi kaskara (@swatimandela) on May 22, 2017 at 4:04am PDTA post shared by Swati Mandela by Roi kaskara (@swatimandela) on May 19, 2017 at 7:37am PDT The fruit of that labour is a line of scarves and capes that are colourful and sometimes dramatic. Neither the capes nor the scarves are designed for wallflowers, though.That said, they don't shout for attention nor are they brash. Instead they have a kind of unconcealed gravitas that catches the eye.So if you don't feel like spending winter draped in greys and beiges, enrobe yourself in swirls of colour in accessories from the Swati by Roi Kaskara line. You can find Swati by Roi Kaskara at the Roi Kaskara store at the Da Vinci Mall in Sandton, Joburg. For more information visit roikaskara.com. This article was originally published in The Times.