Despite the many unconvincing protestations to the contrary, the overwhelming majority of us watch porn. To prove this, the world's foremost pedlar of nudie videos, Pornhub, which recently celebrated its 10th birthday, reached into its treasure trove of stats to show us how our viewing habits have changed since 2007. For example, in the website's first year only 134 hours of video were uploaded. Last year the number of hours had grown to 476,291. To put that into some kind of perspective, if you tried to watch every single video uploaded to Pornhub since its inception, it would take you 173 years to finish. That is of course assuming they stopped uploading things along the way. The screens upon which Pornhub visitors view their barebacked delights have also changed drastically. In 2008 only 1% of their traffic came from mobile devices. As of May that number stands at 75%, meaning there is a good chance that looking at someone's iPhone browser history could produce some awkwardness. People's favourite porn stars have also changed over the years - though Lisa Ann, who bears a striking resemblance to Sarah Palin, is clearly a fan favourite with her body of work topping a billion views. She has been the most watched porn star in four different years. Surprisingly, Lisa Ann is still hugely popular on the site despite having retired at the end of 2014. Lesbians, MILFs (Mothers I'd like to F***), teens and amateurs share the spoils when it comes to the most popular category in any given year. No other category has been the most watched in a year outside of those four, with lesbian the most popular category of all time. Ever wondered which part of the country is the most sexually liberated? According to a recent survey by Lazeeva, a company that makes erotic ... Our time spent Googling the beast with two backs (or more, depending on what you watch) has decreased from a global average of 13.46 minutes in 2007 to 9.46 minutes in 2017. Perhaps we have become more efficient at finding what we need. With more than 75 million visitors a day, it is safe to assume that whomever is telling you they do not watch porn is a baldfaced liar and, given that it's now 2017, there really is no reason to feel ashamed. So next time you're at the water cooler, conduct a social experiment and bring up the video you watched last night. If someone acts shocked and says they don't watch that stuff, then you know who not to believe when they say "I'll pay you back next week". • This article was originally published in The Times.