What does your job involve?My job involves providing service to our customers, who are primarily mineworkers, at the Northam branch, with speedy and accurate processing of their banking and financial transactions, as well as providing possible sales leads to the consultant teams. When requested by customers, we sometimes even work on special holidays and after hours. What makes a good bank teller?Being a good bank teller requires consistency when serving customers, no matter how tired you feel or demanding the customers may be. A ready smile on a teller's face is very important. One must always remain calm and professional. Working for a bank means there are processes, procedures, rules and regulations, and one must know and adhere to them at all times. My job also demands high levels of accuracy, and I must be alert at all times to avoid making mistakes. What training did you do to become a bank teller? I previously worked as a computer studies tutor at a college and an admin clerk before joining the bank as a temporary worker. All I had and needed was a matric certificate, a computer literacy qualification and some work experience. I'm studying towards a National Qualifications Framework Level 5 in banking services.What do you love most about your job?I love that I interact with people the whole day, every day. I wear a uniform, which makes me feel very professional. I love that my job has taught me how to relate to people from all walks of life. I have also learnt the art of humility, and feel that everyone deserves to be treated with dignity and respect no matter their income group or background. Most of all, I love that because I speak almost all the 11 official languages I can use them daily in my interactions with my customers, and that makes me a proud citizen. How do you manage difficult customers?Experience has taught me that remaining calm and doing my best not to argue with them works best. Customers need someone to "give them an ear". Showing them concern for their feelings and their issues makes for a great customer experience even when you are unable to assist them with their problem right away. You have to show them that you care. In my experience, customers also take comfort when you escalate the problem and when they feel that they matter to the teller. What did you want to be when you were a child? I initially wanted to become a teacher, but as I was growing up I became fascinated by the women in my life who were working in the banking industry, and I thought to myself: "I want to be like these ladies." There was something special about them, a certain level of sophistication that inspired me. And many years later, here I am, living my dream, and it's an absolute delight.What would people find most surprising about the work you do?This is a highly disciplined environment. There is little to no margin for error. My colleagues and I, even though we come from diverse retail backgrounds, have a lot in common in this respect.Where do you see yourself in five years? I can see myself growing in my career and becoming a branch manager. Beyond that, the sky is the limit as there are many opportunities in retail banking. Continuing with my studies and sharpening my skills further is critical to my success.