His generosity remained imprinted on newly appointed Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo's memory for 40 years, and reduced him to tears during his recent interview for the post. With a little coaxing from Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, Zondo told the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) the story of the man he knew as "Mr Moosa", who kept his family fed so that Zondo could pursue his dream of becoming a lawyer.For three years Bux, then a grocer in Ixopo, KwaZulu-Natal, provided Zondo's mother with monthly groceries without expecting a cent in return.When Zondo returned to repay Bux after obtaining his degree at the University of Zululand, the businessman refused the money, asking him to rather pay it forward. Bux - now 76 and living in Port Shepstone on the South Coast - this week recounted the day young Zondo approached him. "He used to study at St Mary's Seminary, which produced many intellectuals and successful people," said Bux. "When he approached me about his education and the problem at home, I decided it was best to help his family with groceries."Bux had no formal agreement with Zondo about repaying the money."I told him when he becomes an attorney he could make arrangements for the payment. When he completed his degree he came back."Zondo was taken aback when Bux told him he didn't want him to repay the money.Bux said: "I told him however I have helped him, he should do the same for somebody else, that is all I wanted. I'm glad he had a chance in life to attain this success. I watched him on TV, that's how I knew he became the deputy chief justice. "I'm very proud. I did speak to him a few days ago. We spoke after many, many years. I hoped I had chosen the right person to assist. I see I made the right choice," said Bux. Zondo, 57, told the Sunday Times this week that Bux's gesture "was one of the most remarkable things that anybody ever did for me".He said: "Mr Bux's gesture enabled me to go to university to pursue my legal studies with the peace of mind that my mother and my siblings would be able to have food on the table. I will never forget what he did for me. He has inspired many other people to do for others what he did for me."During his interview with the JSC, Zondo revealed that Bux had offered to give his family R40 a month for groceries - "which was a lot of money back then", he said."He didn't ask me to sign anything and just took my word. My mom couldn't believe it. When I finished my junior degree I went back to 'Mr Moosa'. I thanked him and asked him what arrangements I could make to pay back the money."Zondo struggled to hold back tears when he recalled how Bux imparted sound advice rather than take the money owed to him."He said: 'Don't worry, just do for others what I have done for you.' I thought that was very important . in my own small way, I've tried to do that," Zondo told the commission. He told the Sunday Times: "I am not sure whether, if Mr Solly Bux had not been able to help, I would have been able to go to university at the time I did, or at all. I might have felt that I should look for a job so that I could support my mother and my siblings ." He added that he was eagerly awaiting a reunion with Bux."Arrangements will be made for us to meet after the end of Mr Bux's fasting period. I look forward to seeing him again. His photo was sent to my office this week and he looks very healthy and well. It will mean a great deal to me to see him again."