On 22 November 1910 Mr I Lapin, a lawyer acting on behalf of Seme, lodged an application with the registrar of the Supreme Court of South Africa for his client's admission as an attorney. The matter was placed on the roll, and on Thursday 22 December Seme appeared before Justice Wessels in the Transvaal Provincial Division of the Supreme Court.Seme presented his credentials, which included the fact that he had been called to the bar of the Honourable Society of the Middle Temple on 8 June 1910, and that he continued to be a member of that society. Since a law degree was at the time not required for admission as an attorney, Seme's three years of study at Middle Temple sufficed.Seme's appearance at the Supreme Court was covered by various newspapers. Contrary to the norm, he appeared before the judge without legal representation because, as Imvo Zabantsundu would later report, he "could find no one to represent him". His appearance drew a large crowd of white people who came to witness a black person applying for admission as an attorney, a rare sight at the time.Seme did not disappoint his onlookers. Imvo Zabantsundu reported that Seme was "immaculately dressed in the best of tailor-made garments". Ilanga lase Natal remarked that he spoke polished English and comported himself respectfully. Seme's style and attention to his appearance would frequently be remarked upon in future years, with H Selby Msimang, for instance, describing Seme as clean-shaven and well-groomed, with "an appearance of an aristocrat".At the start of the proceedings Justice Wessels asked Seme whether the Transvaal Law Society was aware that he was lodging an application to be admitted as an attorney.Replying in the "clearest English", Seme stated: "All the papers are in perfectly good order, my Lord." Justice Wessels then "curtly" instructed Seme to take his orders, and Seme, "having been duly sworn in, bowed politely and withdrew".The question as to whether the Transvaal Law Society was aware of Seme's application is significant. A few months before, on 14 July 1910, another black person had appeared in the same court to apply for admission as an attorney. That person was Alfred Mangena the first black person to be admitted as an attorney by a South African court. Like Seme, Mangena was born in Natal, though in the Midlands town of Estcourt. In the late 1890s he went to Cape Town, where he completed his schooling.From there he sailed to England to study law at Lincoln's Inn in London, where he was admitted into the Honourable Society of Lincoln's Inn on 5 October 1903; five years later, on 1 July 1908, he passed his law exams.Upon his return to South Africa, Mangena applied to the Transvaal Provincial Division of the Supreme Court for admission to practise as an attorney. However, in the affidavit signed by its president, Hendrik Lodewyk Malherbe, the Transvaal Law Society fiercely opposed Mangena's application. The society stated that there was no possibility that a black attorney would find legal work from members of the white population in the Transvaal. Thus, a black attorney would have to find legal work from black people. But this, in the view of the Law Society, went against government policy, which encouraged black people to approach the Minister of Native Affairs and his native commissioners to assist them in settling disputes instead of taking them to the courts. The Law Society expressed agreement with government policy, declaring that from time to time it had "used its influence and disciplinary powers to discourage members of the Society from interfering with the said Policy". It argued furthermore that "it would not be in the interests of the natives of the Transvaal to create among them a class of Native Practitioner" and that "such Native Practitioner would be beyond the control of the Society who would find it difficult to exercise its discipline over him".Mangena's application came before Justice Smith of the Transvaal Provincial division of the Supreme Court. He ruled that Mangena was entitled to be admitted as an attorney, arguing that where "an applicant possessed the statutory qualifications the Court would not be justified in refusing to admit him merely because he belonged to one of the native races". In addition, the judge disputed the Law Society's contention that Mangena would encourage litigation among black people, and that he would be guilty of professional misconduct. The judge concluded by suggesting that if, for any reason, it was not desirable for black people to be admitted as attorneys, it was not for the courts to make that call. That responsibility fell with the legislature. He dismissed the Law Society's application and admitted Mangena as the first black attorney in South Africa.The judge's decision paved the way for Seme to apply for admission without opposition from the Law Society. It is likely also to have reaffirmed Seme's admiration of Mangena, which he had expressed in a glowing biographical profile published in August 1908, calling Mangena his hero.The admission of Mangena and Seme as attorneys greatly pleased black public opinion. In late 1911 Ilanga lase Natal published an extensive article singing the praises of Mangena, Seme and George Dixon Montsioa the third black person to be admitted. Mangena was referred to as ingqwele (leader), with Seme being described as inkunzana egwebayo (the prosecuting bull).Seme joined forces with Mangena, and the two young attorneys established a law firm. Mangena ran the firm's main office in Pretoria, while Seme opened an office on the corner of Joubert and Anderson streets in central Johannesburg. While Seme's office administration was poor, with his clerk not being paid for six months at a time, this did not hamper Seme. He got off to a remarkable start, and one of the first cases he dealt with attracted widespread attention. The case involved a black person who was charged for assaulting a white man, and the court proceedings took place in B Court in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court. The Star reported that once news spread that the defendant's attorney was black, members of the public rushed to the court, while lawyers and police officers stayed to watch Seme defending his client. The Star noted that Seme was "well-groomed" and spoke "good English with a slight American accent", and that he conducted his case logically, thereby impressing those present in court.The newspaper also observed that it was the first time a black lawyer had appeared in a Johannesburg court, and alluded also to Mangena having appeared in a Fordsburg court. The following year Seme was praised in the black press for successfully defending Mrs R.D. Bopela, a government employee who would otherwise have lost her job.As black lawyers in a racially segregated society, Seme, Mangena and other pioneering colleagues faced many challenges. One such involved the clash between Seme's status as an attorney and the racism of the society in which he lived. As Seme later described it, the incident occurred on the evening of 14 September 1911 when he was on a train to Volksrust, a town on the border of Natal and Transvaal, on legal business. He said that, like all solicitors, "I of course travel first class." When he requested the steward to bring bedding to his compartment, he waited for two hours in vain.He then decided to look for the steward in the dining car, where he met a rowdy group of young white men who were in a drunken state. When they saw Seme they jumped up and shouted: "K***** in the first class! Kick him out, throw him out of the window!' The men then rushed at him with the clear intention of throwing him out of the moving train, knocking his hat from his head and hitting him in the process. Others joined in, at which point Seme shouted: "You had better stop because I have a loaded revolver with me!" The mob's response was that Seme was lying because "K*****s" were not allowed to carry revolvers. Once again, they rushed at him, whereupon, he wrote, he took his gun from his hip pocket and put it in a side pocket of his coat. At that point the men ran away. Two weeks after the incident, Seme received a notice from the Heidelberg Magistrate's Court informing him that he had been charged with pointing a revolver at a group of people, and for having behaved in a violent manner. When the matter was brought before the court, five young men testified against Seme.Nobody testified in his favour, and he was found guilty of the offence.Another incident involving Mangena further demonstrated that being a lawyer did not make a black man immune to racism. In fact, it seemed to invite it. Mangena was representing a young black man accused of having made indecent advances to a white woman. The man, whom newspapers described as a "Zulu newsboy", was alleged to have made a "click with his lips similar to kissing, and [to have] put out his hand to a young [white] lady as if to chuck her under the chin". The woman complained that while the young man did not actually touch her, he came too close and the noise of his lips "indicated a desire to kiss her". The case came before the magistrate of the Germiston court. Upon hearing that the young black man had appointed Mangena to represent him, a group of white men is reported to have approached the young man's employer to ask him to persuade the young man to employ the services of a white attorney instead of Mangena.Consequently, the young black man was represented by two attorneys at the trial, and when the magistrate asked him to choose one, he opted for Mangena.That is when trouble started. During cross-examination the white woman refused to answer Mangena. She is reported to have pointed to him and said, "I refuse to answer questions put to me by that man." The magistrate, Mr James Young, replied, "Look here, you must answer the questions put to you by that man, or I shall commit you for contempt of court." He then informed her: "That K***** is an officer of this Court. He has been admitted by the Supreme Court to practise as a solicitor. You must understand that a black man has the same rights as a white man in this country." The woman responded by asking: "Is it absolutely necessary to answer?" To this, the magistrate replied: "It is necessary to answer. You are only making a fool of yourself in taking up this attitude." Following this admonishment, the woman proceeded to answer the questions put to her by Mangena.There would be many similar instances in which the first black lawyers would be forced to confront racial discrimination. However, that did not deter them from practising their profession. In the case of Seme, his reputation as an excellent lawyer brought him many high-profile clients. 'The Man Who Founded the ANC', Bongani Ngqulunga, Penguin Books, R280