South Africa is the only country that can legally export lion bone. The government issued its first export permit in 2008 for 50 lion skeletons to Laos.The permit allows only the bones of captive lions to be exported. This excludes lions that live in reserves and includes the carcasses of lions that have been hunted.According to the report, the bones of more than 4900 African lions - wild and captive - were sent from South Africa to Laos, Vietnam, Thailand and China between 2008 and 2014.Paul Funston of Panthera's lion programme said: "Until now there's been about 1,400 bones exported on average annually." Lion bone is used for medicine and as a substitute for tiger bone wine, which some believe has anti-inflammatory properties. The Department of Environmental Affairs wants to limit the export of skeletons to 800 a year. Skeletons sell for about R20,000. In its proposal the department said: "One of the main concerns is that lion bones may be illegally sourced from wild lion populations if the trade in bones originating from captive-bred lions is prohibited. "A well-regulated trade will enable the department to monitor a number of issues relating to the trade, including the possible impact on the wild populations." The department did not respond to questions this week and opponents of the legal trade say it increases the demand for lion bone. In a statement in response to the proposed quota, the Captured in Africa Foundation said: "Asian nationals are sourcing lion bones to replace tiger bones. Captive tigers were bred en masse while wild tiger populations were still targeted and reduced. The same correlation applies to lions in Africa."The foundation said that although wild lions in South Africa were well protected and had not been hugely affected by the legal trade, the lion populations in neighbouring African countries had, and these nations did not have the means South Africa did to protect their wildlife. Funston said: "Why are we allowing a few people to enrich themselves in this ethically flawed business that is repulsed by society?"Every time trade is legalised in one country, it leads to an increase in illegal trade in another."Tim Phillips, the vice-president of international animal rights organisation African Defenders International, said that legalising trade in a certain item often led to an increase in the illegal trade of that article.