But by 6pm on Wednesday it was the only option for Sarie Exton, general manager of the Brenton Haven Beachfront Resort in Brenton-on-Sea; the beach was the only way out for more than 100 people sheltering there.Cats, dogs, people in wheelchairs, even somebody on oxygen - Exton's hotel was literally the end of the road for people trapped by fire on Knysna's western headland."People came from everywhere," Exton said on Friday. "We were supporting them and making them comfortable." There was even a group from the frail-care unit of a nearby luxury estate. "Some arrived with nurses and we had to put them into beds."There they stayed, sipping tea and soup, until the call came to evacuate: the fire was sweeping down on them, leaping hundreds of metres at a time. "It felt like doomsday," Exton said. With the help of her staff and Working on Fire personnel, she started moving people onto the beach, using wheelchairs to ferry the most infirm. In the fierce wind they made a bonfire and handed out blankets. Those who were fit enough started walking to Buffalo Bay, 5km away, straight into the wind with waves lapping at their feet. The rest were packed into a fleet of 4x4 vehicles which arrived from as far away as Mossel Bay to ferry people to safety along the beach. Some vehicles made numerous trips. Exton explained: "Volunteer vehicles arrived from Buffalo Bay, some random strangers who came and offered their vehicles." She was one of the last to leave. Standing on the beach, she watched flames rear up behind the hotel, engulfing the adjoining self-catering chalets. "There is hot air all around and you can actually feel the heat coming towards you," she recalled. At that point she thought the hotel had gone, and sent a message to the foreign-based owners. "All I could see was flames. I WhatsApped the owner and said: 'Our baby is gone - it is burning inside.'" Only in the morning did she discover that the hotel had escaped unscathed, unlike dozens of houses nearby. One of those who braved the walk to Buffalo Bay was pensioner Sue Fairweather, who evacuated her home in Brenton-on-Lake, up the road, with only some spare clothes, her laptop, iPad and medicine. Although a regular beach walker, she said she was unprepared for the hellish trek straight into the wind. "It was the most horrible experience ever. The wind was howling, the sand was blowing, it was freezing cold and it was dark." It took evacuees close to two hours to reach Buffalo Bay, after which they were again evacuated, to Sedgefield, then accommodated at a hotel. Fairweather said they were unable to contact friends and family. "The worst thing was we lost signal at 8pm. No communication. And they were devastated because they couldn't get in touch with us. I think they were more frantic than we were. I was kind of calm. There were a lot of people who were hysterical, which was understandable because you are really losing your whole life." Fortunately, Fairweather's house survived unscathed, but five others in her row did not. She said the ordeal prompted reflection about people for whom fires were a regular menace. "We have just experienced a small fraction of what 90% of our population experiences." jordanb@sundaytimes.co.za