Guardiola's first season in the Premier League ended in disappointment, with City finishing 15 points behind champions Chelsea and failing to win a trophy.City have reacted by signing Portugal playmaker Bernardo Silva from Monaco for 43.6-million, as well as agreeing a 34.7-million deal with Benfica for goalkeeper Ederson Moraes that is awaiting ratification from the Football Association, who must be satisfied third-party ownership issues from the transfer have been resolved.Guardiola is expected to make at least four more signings this summer, and in a bold declaration about City's lofty ambitions under owner Sheikh Mansour, Mubarak said they were motivated by a belief the club can achieve a clean sweep of Premier League, FA Cup, League Cup and Champions League.Manchester United are the only English club to win the treble of league championship, FA Cup and European Cup, but Mubarak hopes City can go one step further, even if there was recognition of how difficult it would be to pull off such an unprecedented feat."It excites me trying to win the Champions League," Mubarak told City's official website. "That dream excites me every day and knowing we can do it. The dream of doing the treble, yes. You mentioned the double, no I want to do the treble, or else let's go for the quadruple! Why not?"We should have that aspiration. I have it, no doubt. Sheikh Mansour drives me for it every day, but you look at the organisation, you see it in Pep's eyes, in everybody within our group."Pep wants to win it all and that's what I love most about him because that's how I feel - we want to win it all. We might not be able to achieve it, but I can assure you, we're going to try to do that."Guardiola failed to meet high expectations over the past season but that has done little to deter Mubarak from talking up City's prospects."Next year is going to be a massive year for us," he said."Expectations are high, ambitions are high. I have a lot of hope that we're going to come back next season very strong and I hope we can deliver to our fans an incredible season."City have had a poor record of academy graduates establishing themselves in the first XI since the Abu Dhabi takeover in 2008 and Guardiola has claimed opportunities are likely to be limited for the youngsters again next season.But Mubarak has backed academy prospects Jadon Sancho, Phil Foden and Brahim Diaz to become first team players at City and wants to see at least one youngster successfully graduating to the senior side every year."You look at Sancho, you look at Phil Foden, you look at Brahim Diaz ... these are players who are extremely talented," he said. "These are players who have a very good chance of making it to the first team."And these are players that if you ask Pep today he will tell you they can and will be first team players at Manchester City."I'd like at least a player, if not two, playing and competing at the first-team level from the academy every year."The academy is producing what we aspire for it to produce and it is doing it now. I'm not talking about the future, I'm talking about now because I know what we have."City have accepted a 12.2-million bid from Villarreal for Turkey striker Enes Unal, whom they bought from Bursaspor for just 2.1-million in 2015. The club have also negotiated a 17.4-million buyback clause for the highly rated 20-year-old.Nolito is likely to depart City in the summer, with Juan Carlos Unzue, the new Celta Vigo coach, confirming his interest in bringing the unsettled Spain forward back to the club a year after his 13.8-million sale. - The Daily Telegraph