Q. My husband and I are travelling to Cuba in September on holiday. We are South African citizens. We will be arriving at JFK on our US visa and have booked a flight to Havana from JFK. We are confused about the Cuban visa requirements.I have phoned the Cuban embassy in Pretoria and they told me to phone the US embassy in Sandton. That was a mission impossible. - Audrey LevensonA. As a South African passport holder you need a visa (which they call a tourist card) to enter Cuba and this has nothing to do with your US visa or the US embassy.South Africans flying to Cuba via Europe can apply through the Cuban embassy before leaving SA, but as you are flying through the US, your case is different.As of February 2017, South Africans travelling to Cuba via the US must apply for their visa when they land in the US.Samantha Phillips of Visas and Passports Unlimited (visasunlimited.co.za or phone 011-452-4646) says you must be sure to have the following documentation with you: proof of your return flight, proof of accommodation in Cuba and proof of sufficient funds.A staff member at the Cuban embassy in Pretoria (phone 012-346-2215) confirmed this but could not say where to apply - "ask when you get to the airport". She also had no idea of the cost but the charge in South Africa is R270.You should plan your flights carefully to allow time to apply for the visa (about two to three hours).Q. My husband and I would like to visit Hong Kong and then fly on to New Zealand to visit family. We would like to fly to Hong Kong and stay for about five days, then head to Wellington for a three-week stay. We would then return to Hong Kong to get our flight home. I have been looking at flights on the internet and it appears that buying two separate flights works out a lot cheaper. Is this acceptable and what would the pitfalls be? - Edwina RapleyA. Your question is an example of how it's always best to make bookings through a reputable travel agent. Thompsons Travel has kindly commented on your question, and you can contact them on 011-770-7677 or travel@thompsons.co.za.Yes, you can buy two separate tickets and that can work out cheaper sometimes. The only problem would be if there are changes due to a schedule change, cancellation or illness etc, you would have two penalties to pay.If the ticket is, for example, to fly Auckland/Hong Kong on one airline and then Hong Kong/Johannesburg on another airline, your luggage won't be booked through to Johannesburg.Should there be a delay in the Auckland/Hong Kong flight and you miss your Hong Kong/Johannesburg flight, there would be penalties to be paid.When you have a through-fare (ie connecting flights with one airline), you won't be penalised for delays from their side, and your luggage will be booked through to your final destination.Q. We are planning a trip to Cape Town. Do you have any thoughts on FlySafair? They appear to be advertising rather aggressively and their flights are cheap. Worth a try? - Giulio LuccardaA. FlySafair is showing a profit and expanding routes. It is also run by Safair, a company that has been offering a range of specialist airlift services for more than half a century, so they are indeed "worth a try". The fares are low because you pay extra for certain things - ie check-in baggage, seat choice, food and drinks. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za