Below are the UK's top eight most watched in-game moments on YouTube before yesterday's Champions League final between Real Madrid and Juventus.8) Zlatan Ibrahimovic amazing 30m bicycle-kick goal, Sweden 4 England 2Ryan Shawcross must rue the fact his one England cap pitted him against Sweden's Zlatan Ibrahimovic, though there was nothing he could do. The cocktail of athleticism, accuracy and power was one only the inimitable Ibrahimovic could concoct.7) Cristiano Ronaldo's incredible backheel goal against ValenciaThis superb piece of improvisation has attracted nearly 5-million views. Ronaldo moves away from goal to evade his marker to collect Angel Di Maria's cross, but a flick of his right foot diverts the ball home off his heel. It was a last-minute equaliser.6) Manchester City 2 Manchester United -3: FA Cup 3rd Round, 2012With more than 5.5-million views, this somewhat forgotten Manchester derby had everything. United raced into a 3-0 half-time lead following Vincent Kompany's red. Aleksandar Kolarov and Sergio Aguero pulled goals back in the second period but Sir Alex Ferguson's men held on.5) Barcelona 1 Real Madrid 3: Copa del Rey semifinal second leg, 2013Jose Mourinho's team booked their place in a domestic cup final with a well-executed counterattacking display. Cristiano Ronaldo led Gerard Pique a merry dance to win a first-half penalty, before he finished off a lighting Angel di Maria-led break in the second period. Raphael Varane scored a third just to make sure.4) David Beckham scores from a corner for LA GalaxyLittle surprise that Beckham has attracted more than 7-million viewers. Truth be told, the goal itself is a little disappointing: a near-post corner that manages to skip through everyone. But goals straight from corners are always something to savour.3) Gareth Bale's incredible goal against Barcelona, Copa del Rey final 2014Bale pushes the ball past Marc Bartra, runs off the pitch, yet still manages to eat up the yards and skin his opponent. Then he had the wherewithal to slip the ball under Victor Valdes and win a major trophy for Real . Nearly 11-million views.2) Gerard Pique needling Cristiano RonaldoWhat makes this Clasico quite amusing is that Ronaldo had been on the pitch for less than a minute when Pique chopped him down and was booked for his trouble. The Barca player then has a few words in Ronaldo's ear who struggles not to crack a smile.1) Barcelona under-11s 2 Real Madrid Under-11s 0Yes that's right, with more than 13-million views, the most popular in-match YouTube clip is a game of kid's football.