The sushi burrito is said to have first made its appearance in San Francisco in 2011 and has now spread across the globe. The recently opened Sushi Burrito &amp; Co in Melrose Arch, Joburg, offers a wide selection, along with other baos as well as a few pokes.If that sounds like gastronomic gobbledygook then let's explain what you would be ordering: Sushi burrito: the sushi has a filling of rice, protein, vegetables and sauce and is wrapped in seaweed and rolled up like a burrito. Bao: a colloquial term for a steamed Asian bun made from a ball of dough stuffed with a filling. Poke: originally a Hawaiian salad of cubed raw fish which today has been dressed up with rice, noodles and other toppings like nacho chips, avocado, cabbage, radish, carrots or grains like quinoa.The funky and functional eatery's sushi burritos make diners reconsider what they think of as sushi, especially when it comes to fillings.Some, like the raw salmon burrito (R110), which comes with coriander, lettuce, sliced red onion, guacamole and wasabi, are more familiar. Others are more of a hybrid. Think fish 'n chips burrito (R87), with panko crumbed fish, crispy potato chips, coleslaw, ginger and lettuce among the ingredients; or subuta pork (R92) comprising deep-fried pork, spring onion, carrot, beansprouts, salad, sriracha chilli and a sweet-and-sour BBQ sauce (R92). Textures are all important and diners can choose whether to have "the crisp" (Japanese panko bread crumbs) in the roll itself or as the bright tangerine-coloured outer layer. The flavours blend well and work together thanks to chef Katsuhiko Miyamoto. He has a reputation as one of the best sushi chefs in South Africa and has worked at various restaurants such as Koi and Wakame during his three-decade career.Sushi Burrito &amp; Co also serves seafood poke, said to be one of Barack Obama's favourite dishes. The tuna poke (R125) has soy, ginger and chilli marinated fresh tuna served with edamame, crispy kale, nori, coconut flakes and salad. It comes with a sweet garlic soya dressing and optional rice. There is a selection of baos and the crispy duck (R90) with hoisin sauce and Asian greens comes highly recommended.The biggest nod to Mexico on the menu comes in the form of tostadas in which the crispy taco shell is topped with salmon or tuna sashimi, prawn or yakitori chicken (R28 to R48).Address: 10 Crescent Drive, Melrose Arch, Johannesburg. Call 064-928-1031* At the time of visiting the eatery did not yet have a liquor licence so BYO or check beforehand.