GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Some serious changes are needed. So swallow your pride, and apologise. Friday's full moon offers the chance to begin again with everything. There'll be new ideas and a pioneering edge to your spirit. Fear is the only thing holding you back. Not to mention a peculiar willingness to let other people run your life. Make a list of requirements and stay focused. You know you want to. And you can.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)The crowds are in the mood to be impressed, so try something new and exciting. And that doesn't mean stepping out in your lime-green monokini either. The planets were hoping for something more cerebral and triumphant. Even so, such a move will certainly involve letting go of some of your stodgier notions. But that's okay. The stakes are high enough to make the risk worthwhile.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Friends play a vital role in keeping you objective and vaguely sane. So spend as much time as you can with the supportive and inspiring. New options will come up at work. Take your time before leaping into the fray. Some of those temptations sound better than they look. Keep your head, ask for advice, and pack your ego away. Then take another look at the array of fascinating options.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Your battered little psyche needs attention and it's time to get help. Find a therapist you can gel with and make some appointments. You're probably also wondering what's happened to your social life. Fret not. There's a big part of you desperately in need of solitude. So let your love life and your career take a back seat for a while. Make this about you - learn how to be of use to yourself.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Bubbling undercurrents at home are suddenly out in the open. There's nothing wrong with an airing of views. Do try to hold the barbed remarks though. If you're feeling hurt, say so. Cruelty is never a suitable alternative. At work, the wheels of progress seem to have got stuck in the mud. Have patience. The sun will shine again soon. And you'll wonder what you were getting so hysterical about.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)You're not accustomed to wildly irrational temper tantrums, and are almost frightened when they arrive. In fact, if the truth were known, you have no idea what you're so upset about. So how about this: you wish you were more assertive, but lack the courage. Instead you wait until you're so frustrated you lose your cool and start yelling. Not a good idea. Try something else. You deserve the best.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Future plans will need more common sense than you'd rationed for. As much as you'd rather not dwell on it, there are legal issues at stake and educational decisions to be made. But that doesn't mean there won't be any fun. For a while, you'll have to pretend you're a grown-up making responsible decisions. You might even like it. By next week, your luck angels will be back in their seats.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)It's time to let yourself off the hook for a moment. You're working yourself into a frenzy, and the wires are stretched too tight. The problem is that you think no one can do the job as well as you can. You may be right, but not even you can manage everything at once. So get yourself cloned or take a chance on someone else. What's the worst? Or the best? Take a chance on an adventure of discovery.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)You're getting into that hyper critical mood, where you think you know what's best for everyone else. It doesn't help to point out people's faults. Because if there's one thing they know better than you - it's what's wrong with them. Try for a compliment instead. There's something good to be said about everyone. Then start exploring the good in you. There's so much of it.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)You're aware of the need for change and you've set some ideas in motion. But you've reached a pothole you can't get past. So sit in it! Where does it say you have to make progress on an hourly basis? Obviously, there must be moments of appreciation and indulgence. This is one of those. So make no plans and be happy. Friday's full moon sets a new cycle in motion. Be kind to yourself.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)You're a rebel at heart, aren't you? Or should that read "pioneer"? Just as it should be. You're here to shake the rest of them out of their complacent ruts. The snag is that your attentions are not always welcome. You've been under pressure this year and those pressures will find release under Friday's full moon. Nothing spectacular. Just a quiet calm washing over you. Nice.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)It's a great week for you. By full moon on Friday, you'll be in charge of your life and ready for your next big break. Money (and goodies) prepares for an interesting journey into your life. Love is still hesitant, but moving in the right direction. Travel is a possibility, though mental adventures are more likely until you've decided where you're actually going. Mostly, though, life is good. Enjoy.