These are the words of Malcolm McGown, whose wife Beverly died last week of a pulmonary disease.The couple spent the past five-and-a-half years trying to have their son Stephen, 42, rescued from his captors.In 2011, Stephen was captured by al-Qaeda in Timbuktu, Mali, with two other travellers, one Dutch and one Swedish, while on a trip south through Africa on his motorbike. A German who refused to get onto the al-Qaeda truck was killed on the spot.Stephen and his wife Catherine had planned to start a family when he returned to Johannesburg, and he was going to work with his father.The last time the McGowns spoke to Stephen was via Skype. "He told us about the people he had met and said they were going to Timbuktu to see the ancient manuscripts," said Malcolm.Four days later they learnt of his abduction. "I frantically called Steve's phone so many times. I left a message saying 'Steve, just do what they want you to do' but his phone had long since been confiscated."Not long after this, Beverly was put on oxygen for her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and "also started having terrible panic attacks".They last heard from their son in December 2015 on a video obtained by Gift of the Givers."Now that Bev has passed away, I just want to go and find my son - or at least find some information about where he is and if he is OK."In March 2015, fellow hostage Sjaak Rijke from Holland was rescued by French forces. He and Stephen had been together for the first few years but had then been separated."He came to South Africa to meet us and tell us about Steve," said Malcolm. "As I showed him around the house, he said, 'I know every single room and inch of this house. Steve and I spent endless hours reconstructing miniature versions of our homes and showing them to each other'. I think they made them out of sand and bits of cardboard."Today, Malcolm does not know if his son is still in Mali. He could also be in Algeria or Mauritania. But he has never stopped fighting to get him back. He has taken his case to President Jacob Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and has worked closely with Gift of the Givers.Said Malcolm: " Right up until the end I reassured Bev - we are going to get Steve out. And that is what I still plan on doing."