For this we have Google. If you enter "how to spell" in the search bar, it will give you a list of the words most frequently looked up in the past day. A team of bored Google employees had some fun with this recently by doing the same exercise every day for four months in all 50 of the United States (the search engine also analyses by region). They collated their results and "Google's breakdown of what Americans don't know how to spell, state by state" was published by the Washington Post.Breakdown indeed. According to this report, the word that most confuses inhabitants of Wisconsin is "Wisconsin". In Tennessee they are wildly casting about for the spelling of "chaos" and in South Dakota the most misspelt word is "college".One can only speculate on the reasons for some of the searches. In Arkansas and South Carolina, most Google users want to know how to spell "chihuahua". This is admittedly a difficult word, but why such a rush on it? In all likelihood a chihuahua won Best in Show at the Arkansas tiny-dog championships, or perhaps a chihuahua saved a toddler from a house fire in South Carolina and now everyone wants one.It is harder to fathom why "giraffe" should be the most searched-for spelling in Louisiana. Again, we can surmise that giraffes featured large in the local news. Perhaps a giraffe plucked a toddler from the window of a burning building.You'd think those who live in Mississippi would be afflicted with the same patriotic anxiety as the citizens of Wisconsin about the spelling of their own state's name, but instead the word that flummoxes most Mississippians is "nanny". Perhaps a nanny saved a toddler from a flaming nursery and now everyone wants one.I don't really want to know why people in New Hampshire are running to Google to find out how to spell "diarrhea" (which we spell diarrhoea). There must be something going around, because in Alabama, Maine, Michigan and Washington, everyone appears to be looking up "pneumonia" and in Utah the spelling priority is "disease".In Wyoming they are looking for "priority", in Oregon for "sense" and in Montana for "surprise". Isn't everybody? No surprise that in the practical states of Texas and Missouri they are eager to spell "maintenance" correctly. Pennsylvanians, meanwhile, are asking about "sauerkraut".Good things must have happened in Delaware and Indiana, because the spelling conundrum that preoccupies people in those states is "hallelujah". In New Mexico there has been a stampede to find out how to spell "bananas". In Hawaii they are searching for "people" and in Colorado the focus is on "tomorrow". In Nebraska the word du jour is "suspicious" and in Nevada it is "available". Could there be a link?What about South Africa? You might think that the Google engine in these parts would be flooded with requests for how to spell "recession" or "capture" or "chameleon", but when I tried this experiment the top two word searches under "how do you spell" were "love" and "desert". This is encouraging, assuming it has nothing to do with drought and "dessert" is what people are really after. Perhaps we're not so bad after all.As a caveat, consider that in Donald Trump's home state of New York, where the chief pumpkin might be asking his minions to research a strange concept called "manners", most denizens are asking Google how to spell "beautiful". Seems when a word is not much needed it doesn't take long for people to forget how to spell it.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter @deGrootS1