At 5.30 on Monday morning my 10-year-old brought me coffee in bed and it got me up - even though it was decaffeinated. He's an early riser but it's been months since I got room service from him. That moment may count as "Yesterday's Best Thing" when I look back on the day (it's 7am so it's hard to predict). His YBT was his first surfing lesson at Muizenberg. Yesterday's Best Thing is one of six prompts (see below) suggested in a bestselling book which aims to transform people's appreciation of their lives - an awareness that benefits them and those around them. The author, Debbie Goodman-Bhyat, a mindfulness practitioner and CEO of executive-search agency Jack Hammer, said: "In the Flow consists of six prompts that help us to wake up and notice the ordinary - yet special - moments of our lives, by paying attention, on purpose, to these moments." Mindfulness 101 is the title of one of her chapters and it captures the style of the book. In the Flow: The Power of Noticing the Small Stuff is an easy and quick read with practical insights on how people can be more attentive to what matters, thus reducing stress and improving productivity. In the Flow moves beyond the impact of mindfulness on people's personal lives - "Mindfulness makes the leap from the meditation room to the boardroom" is how it is pitched. Research at Fortune 500 companies and other organisations has shown that mindfulness practices in the workplace can reduce stress by 19% and increase productivity (37%), focus (40%) and emotional control (34%), Goodman-Bhyat reported. "Introducing mindfulness practices in the workplace does not take massive amounts of time, strategising or financial investment," she said. "But it does take commitment and championing by leaders." Goodman-Bhyat tested the six prompts within her company with positive results. Jack Hammer's team culture shifted and got stronger as people "shared, authentically, a little bit about themselves every day". Despite sounding intrusive, the prompts supported sharing and connection which built a compassionate culture. "With each person starting to cultivate greater self-awareness, this of course impacts the way in which they engage at work and in all areas," she said. "There is no formal mindfulness meditation training, but rather an application of the principles to everyday life." In The Flow is being practised in companies in South Africa, the US, the UK and China. The practice works best with smaller teams. "More than 20 and it's a bit cumbersome and admin-intensive to implement," Goodman-Bhyat said. "It is totally doable with people who are on the road and not in an office. In fact, it's a wonderful way for people who work remotely to have a structure and daily check-in." In high-profile companies around the world, including Google and Intel, mindfulness initiatives have been implemented. Locally, corporations like Woolworths and Old Mutual, among others, are looking into mindfulness training and practices at work, Goodman-Bhyat said. On Goodman-Bhyat's contribution to this trend, Allan Gray chief operating officer Rob Dower, said: "There are a LOT of self-help books out there for companies and individuals trying to improve. This one is a keeper. It's not too long, it's well written, including useful practical tools that are ambitious in their impact but not at all intimidating to get into." Goodman-Bhyat used herself as the guinea pig for her ideas. She went from feeling like an exhausted, dried-out washrag to having abundant time and energy. "In the first year of In the Flow I was able to take on ... a facilitation training programme for a global entrepreneurship organisation, a dance project which included my first professional stage performance in 15 years, several extraordinary travel adventures ... and a surf trip to Maldives," said Goodman-Bhyat, who is a former dancer. 1) Yesterday's Best Thing 2) Grateful For 3) Looking Forward To 4) Conscious Kindness 5) Compliment Sincerely 6) Greet Warmly