GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Yay! Earnings are up and money looks fabulous. It's a success week, so figure out what the word means for you. No vague fantasies. Desires must be clear enough to be understood in any language. If you're not sure, write them down. That brilliant mind is on a roll, so harness the thoughts for longer than five seconds, and you'll amaze yourself. Love couldn't be happier.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Linen suits are your look for the week. Success and successful people are in your wake - and you want to look the part. The usual answers are no longer sufficient, and you're looking elsewhere for your vision. Last week's full moon gave you the courage to change direction. This week's power planets give you the oomph. Put one foot in front of the other. The universe will take care of the rest.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)It's your week to do everything you want . And yes, that does sound mildly selfish. But as soon as you're happy, you'll be delighted to help out anywhere you can. So go ahead - indulge your every whim. Aside from anything else, you have fantastic financial instincts and an ability to talk your way round tight corners. So, for now, risks are there to be taken. You're a winner on the way to collect your winnings.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Keen to hang on to the lover? You'll need to master the art of compromise. Not everyone has your discernment, so you'll have to be the bigger person here. If you want out, here's your chance. The planets are transforming your understanding of love, so seize the moment. The career looks fantastic. Only exhaustion levels are holding you back. Get some rest. Stop taking yourself so seriously.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)You're looking dazzling enough to stop traffic - but you have other fish to fry. The career is sizzling, and money is strolling casually in. Soon you'll be able to have that languid afternoon you dream about. And while you're mulling over that, be good to your friends. You need them. And in the event they're in short supply, leave the house. Meetings with fabulous people are on offer.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Emotional harmony is more important than career now. Which is fine. Your focus is on home (maybe moving or renovating), where you're spending most of your time - for a change. Invite some friends. And delay the bigger plans until you feel better equipped to make the right choices. Don't fret about finances. The money will be there when you need it. Tides must flow out as well as in.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)It would appear "the truth", whatever that means to you, has suddenly become incredibly important. But before you start enlightening everyone about the meaning of life, remember truth is an individual concept. On the job front, meanwhile, this could be a good time to think about going on your own. Before you leave safety nets though, find ways to make your new life pay.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)All that shy, hiding out rubbish has to end this week. The planets have had enough of your fence-sitting and want commitment. If it's a question of trust, think about how much you trust your own feelings before making demands on anyone else. Don't go making cruel accusations without proof. Tolerance and acceptance are the words you're looking for. You're not that easy to deal with either.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)It's virtually impossible for you to be anything less than fabulously impressive and delightfully opinionated. But perhaps you could try. This is not the time to demand your own way. In fact, you need some practice in letting them feel as though they've won. Great social delights will result. After which, you can open your big mouth again . The world is always fascinated by your thoughts.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Your poor aching body has become so sensitive to pressure every step feels like a mile. It's time to start taking care of yourself. Watch closely to see how tension affects your health. And have another look at your relationships - all of them. If you're the one making all the compromises, stop it. For the whole week, say NO to everyone else, and focus all your attention on your own needs.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)This week's planets are 'out of bounds', which means you're moving outside of your normal boundaries. Madness is part of your natural make-up, so when you have cosmic permission to creep over the edges, the possibilities are wild. You're behaving like a loony - a perfect recipe for magic. Or disaster. The trick is patience. Love is on your side, so enlist the help of those you care about.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Looking for work? Or for different ways to use your time? Excellent. The planets have moved in, bringing kitchen sinks, offers, opportunities - and money. Short-term money goals are looking good. Which leaves you with the bigger picture and a new plan. Take that panicked look off your face. Change is part of life. Do you want to be part of the process, or wait until it visits on its own?