Over a breakfast, his father reads the family a hymn. That night, he'll read another."I'd never thought about my religion until IS [Islamic State] attacked us in August 2014," Sabah said. "My family fled to Mount Sinjar to hide, but we had no food or water for 10 days and I felt like I was being burned alive by the sun. I started praying without realising what I was doing."Six months later his family settled in a makeshift camp and he devoted weekends to volunteering at atemple."My father told us we had to be more connected to our faith. It was all we had left."Nobody knows when Iraq's Yazidi community began the journey to Lalish. It is the minority group's holiest site and its conical towers house a holy spring thought to date back 4,000 years.The spiritual centre, 58km north of Mosul, used to count itself lucky to attract 100 visitors a weekend but that figure has multiplied tenfold. Every Friday, more than 1,000 Yazidis like Sabah now file barefoot up the hill.Stalls selling selfie sticks have cropped up in ancient archways and a first-aid centre has been built to cope with (among other things) the number of elderly overcome by the heat. More than 100 volunteers help control the crowds, sweep away the dust and light the 366 oil burners that illuminate the site at night.The religion has been traced to the ancient Zoroastrian faith and was founded centuries before Christianity or Islam.The reason for the temple's sudden popularity was obvious, said one of its spiritual leaders, Alyas Baba Sheikh. "By practising our faith, we are showing IS that Yazidis are strong, and we can't be defeated," the 60-year-old said, adding that he had never seen such open devotion to the Yazidi faith before now. "Most of the families who travel here were affected in some way by the massacre. We all were."It has been almost two years since IS attacked the Shingal province of northern Iraq. During the genocide the terror group captured about 10,000 members of the Yazidi community and killed up to 4,400 half of whom were shot, beheaded or burnt alive. The rest are thought to have died of starvation and dehydration while seeking safety in the nearby mountains.While the head of security at Lalish temple, Arsan Saed, 39, said the site had been at the top of IS's target list for more than two years, the threat of attack has not deterred thousands of Yazidis from going there in search of sanctuary and support since the massacre."We did increase our security team from 20 to 120," he said."But on a daily basis, our job is just to ensure nobody tries to smuggle wine into the temple. These days there are so many visitors that even when IS are defeated, we'll still need this many guards."- The Daily Telegraph, London