Here are the five most interesting groupings for the first two rounds:Kaymer, Spieth and JohnsonThe three most recent US Open champs will have a first-hand look at each other's games early in the tournament. Johnson and Spieth played against and defeated Kaymer's European squad at the Ryder Cup recently. The two Americans went neck and neck for the US Open crown in 2015. Spieth ultimately prevailed because Johnson three-putted from 3.4m on the 72nd hole.Spieth and Kaymer are similar in strengths and distance off the tee. Johnson will be playing a different course.Bubba Watson, Adam Scott and Sergio GarciaThe three Masters winners will enter the week expecting to contend. Watson has been dreadful since last spring, compiling just one top 10 in stroke play events since his T-10 at last year's Tour Championship.Scott finished in the top 10 at the Masters (T-9) and the Players Championship (T-6) this year, so his game has come alive on the big stage. His comments regarding the US Golf Association's recent struggles will throw him firmly in the limelight.Garcia has been solid since slipping on the green jacket in April. It seems unlikely he will go nearly two decades without winning a major only to win two in a row, but it could happen.Hideki Matsuyama, Rickie Fowler and Jon RahmIf the previous group highlighted the stars in their 30s, then this is a power group representing some of the game's brightest talents in their 20s. Matsuyama hasn't played well since his winning barrage last winter, but he has the long game to win a US Open.Fowler has been peppering leaderboards all year. His putting stroke looks good and he is finding fairways with relative ease.Rahm has set the golf world ablaze with consistent form. He has finished T-4, T-72, T-2, MC in his last four starts. Under that trend he might just earn another victory this week.Rafa Cabrera Bello, Thomas Pieters and Brooks KoepkaThis group features a nice blend of finesse and power. Koepka and Pieters will put on a show off the tee, and while Cabrera Bello is no slouch, he excels around the greens.Pieters contended at the Masters with T-4 in his first trip to Augusta National. He has three top-five finishes on Tour this season, and just finished T-14 at the BMW PGA Championship in Europe a couple of weeks ago. Koepka has been an enigma this year, racking up missed cuts and top-20 finishes.Jason Day, Justin Rose and Rory McIlroyArguably the most illustrious group, this trio of major champions should have galleries flocking to see what they can conjure at Erin Hills.McIlroy is playing for just the second time since the Masters due to lingering rib pain. He may be a little rusty, so it will be interesting to see what sort of form he brings.Day has a runner-up and a T-15 in his last two starts. He appears focused and ready for a special run after battling an injury, and dealing with his mother's cancer surgery.Rose finished runner-up at the Masters. Though he is quiet and not usually mentioned among the world's best players on a consistent basis, he should be a great threat to earn his second US Open title this week.Phil Mickelson has been handed a late tee time for the first round of the US Open in Wisconsin on Thursday, leaving open the faint possibility that he could still compete in the major championship at Erin Hills.Mickelson is scheduled to tee off at 9.20pm SA time.The 46-year-old American revealed recently that he had planned to skip the Open to attend his daughter's high school graduation in southern California.The ceremony is scheduled for 7pm, SA time, which makes it impossible for him to attend it and also make the roughly four-hour flight in his private jet to Wisconsin in time for his scheduled tee time.But the late tee time is Mickelson's only hope, because it means that a weather delay could give the five-times major winner time to get there, if his tee time is pushed back to either late afternoon or Friday morning.It is an unlikely scenario, but one that has prompted Mickelson not to officially withdraw from the only major championship he has never won. Reuters