The most important part of achieving a flawless makeup look can get tricky when you have to consider skin tone, skin type, which area of the face is the best to test foundation on, and what texture you prefer.In the past, the foundation trend was to layer it on for an airbrushed, caked-on look. Now, in the era of effortless beauty, foundation is all about enhancing skin.Whether lightly layering a sheer veil of product to the point where skin still looks like skin or just using concealer to spot correct, there is a foundation for everyone.Use this handy guide to find the one that's best for you.This woman loves her foundation but she loves her skin even more. She enjoys a light coverage that still allows her natural texture and glow to shine through.If this is you: Luckily, beauty brands have jumped on the "skin first" bandwagon with full force so the variety of double-duty foundations is huge. Choose foundations with a lightweight liquid formula that can be built up to your desired coverage. Foundation should have an SPF as well as a serum base that will give your skin all the additional benefits of skincare and coverage.Try: Bobbi Brown Intensive Skin Serum Foundation SPF 40 30ml, R765; Clinique Even Better Makeup SPF 15 in Toffee 30ml, R435; DiorSkin Nude Air Serum Nude Healthy Glow Ultra-Fluid 30ml, R855.This woman is all about the glow and combating dry, patchy skin.If this is you: Skin that looks hydrated, healthy and radiant is your main concern when it comes to foundation. Your skin type is naturally dry, but in winter it looks dull and patchy and foundation doesn't seem to sit well. Your skin loves a foundation that seems to melt into it and leaves a glisten on the surface. Avoid powder and go for liquid or mousse products that are water-based with hydrating ingredients.Try: CHANEL Les Beiges Teint Belle Mine Naturelle Healthy Glow Foundation in 40, R900; 3INA The Nude Skin Foundation Oil-Free, R270.This woman battles with oily skin and that "4pm shine" on the T-zone. Where foundation is involved, she is looking for a product to mattify her skin but not dry it out.If this is you: Look for liquid and cream foundations that are oil-free or opt for a powdered foundation that will be able to absorb any excess oil on the skin. If you feel like you need a little extra mattifying power, put a mattifying primer on your moisturised skin before applying your foundation.Try: Dolce &amp; Gabbana Perfect Matte Liquid Foundation in 78 Beige, R845; MAC Studio Fix Fluid SPF 15 in NW58, R450; Inglot HD Perfect Cover Up Foundation in #85, R499; Sensai Cellular Performance Total Finish Foundation in 22 Natural Beige, R500.