1) PersimmonPersimmons are hot contenders as all-round champion of fruits. With more dietary fibre than apples and an abundance of valuable phytochemicals, persimmons have been shown to have numerous benefits from reducing cholesterol to improving overall heart health.New findings suggests they may also have a stabilising effect on blood sugar. An excellent source of beta-carotene, vitamin C, iron and a range of essential trace minerals.2) QuinceA favourite for making jams and jellies, the high pectin content provides concentrated soluble fibre which has been shown to prevent constipation and lower LDL ("bad") cholesterol.Cooking quinces improves their health-giving properties and releases the protective anthocyanin pigments that cause the dramatic shift in colour from white to orange-red. They can also be baked, roasted, poached or whizzed up in soups. 3) SatsumasSmaller than naartjies, satsumas are packed with vitamin C and immune-boosting nutrients. Nibble on the pith that surrounds each segment as this contains bioflavonoids which boost vitamin C activity. Their perky scent is a great mood-lifter. How to grow luscious pomegranates4) PomegranateThe jewel-like seeds (or arils) are so dazzling they can transform a bowl of plain lettuce into a culinary event. Equally attractive is their concentration of polyphenols, which have potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. Some studies suggest pomegranates boast more antioxidant potential than green tea or red wine, and may have a wide application from preventing heart disease to slowing the growth of certain types of cancer.Eat the whole arils including the seeds as they contain additional fibre and vitamin K. 5) PearsUse firmer pear varieties as a crisp salad ingredient or poach softer fruits to make a seasonal crumble.Like quince, they are a good source of soluble fibre, but also contain useful amounts of vitamin C, potassium and copper.Gentle on digestion, they are of the most hypoallergenic fruits and have been used as a first food for both infants and those recovering from a sore tummy. The author of this article, Daniel Jardim, teaches cookery retreats and workshops around South Africa with an emphasis on staying healthy with the seasons. Visit seasonalcookery.co.za.