When I meet Maxime Holder, chairman of PAUL International, the French bakery/cafe represented in 36 countries around the world, he is sitting in the first PAUL in South Africa, in Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, sipping a local red espresso latte."It's enjoyable," he says, taking another sip and dipping his fork into a classic French fruit tartlet. "I eat all day long," says the affable Frenchman not that it shows.Jamie Oliver restaurant opens in Johannesburg - with a chef who hails from Springs"It's part of the job," he says, adding that he needs to be 100% sure of the quality of food served by the global brand. Dapper in a grey suit and with just days to the official opening in Johannesburg, he is as cool as a cucumber.The emphasis is clearly on tradition and family for this family-owned bakery/cafe business started in 1889 and passed down over five generations. The first PAUL in South Africa is a partnership with local restaurant group Famous Brands. The restaurant is a hive of activity on the day of my visit.In the back I glimpse a bevy of bakers working a mountain of dough for the variety of breads they are selling both artisanal and more elaborate breads, and of course the French baguette.Their world-famous croissants will be flown in from France, frozen. It's not that they don't want to share the recipe, "but croissants are made in vast quantities and are very difficult to get right", says the man who clearly doesn't compromise on quality.Senior members of the South African PAUL team spent two months training under PAUL bakery masters in the UK and in turn are sharing their skills with the 84 people employed in the local outlet.The use of locally sourced ingredients is the ethos of the PAUL brand. The brand of South African flour selected was sent to London five times before it met with the brand's specifications.The bakery/cafe feels like a little a corner of France, both comfortable and enticing with lots to choose from; good coffee, juices, pastries, cakes, breads and breakfast, lunch and dinner options.</img>Chairman of PAUL International, Maxime Holder. Image: SuppliedChairman of PAUL International, Maxime Holder. Image: SuppliedPrices are competitive, too and are probably the most affordable in the PAUL global group. A croissant sells for R22, the classic French lemon tartlet is R37 and the Gourmandise, a croissant pastry with pastry cream and chocolate drops, is R28."My father was the first baker to include two lines of chocolate in the pain au chocolat," says Holder, proudly adding that he does not want PAUL to be a luxury brand as much as a premium brand and a place where people come together and share the French art de vivre (art of living).Holder joined the family business at 26 after studying law at university. His father insisted he learn the ropes he is both a baker and a pastry chef."I was taught by my father that the two most difficult things to get right in a bakery are a mille-feuille [a pastry with layers of thin puff pastry and cream filling] and an eclair," he says. Both are simple products, but very difficult to make."'If these products are good the rest are simple to make', said my father."Visit: PAUL, Shop 010I3, Corner The High Street &amp; Crescent Drive, Melrose Arch, Joburg.