It was unexpected, the way I met plein air painter Ren Snyman. That is, I didn't expect, on my walk in Hermanus one evening, to see a solitary painter with her easel on the sea cliffs. There was something so peculiar and wonderful about it. How often do you see painters painting in nature? "Hello," says the painter, not glancing up from her painting. There is a strong smell of acrylic and salt. She is seated so close to the sea that one misstep and she will fall into it. The wind makes her long red hair fly about. Over the uneven stones one kind soul clambers, to the rock where she is marooned, proffering cake. All that exists in the world is this painter, her canvas, and the sea. We talk over the clamour of wind and waves. R24,000 price tag for artwork painted by 200kg porkerA professional artist since 1998, Snyman has been painting outside, or "en plein air", for about 10 years. In the US, where some combine it with extreme sports like skiing, plein air painting is not an uncommon hobby. There are clubs, events. PleinAir magazine publisher BEric Rhoads says it's a way for the public to watch art being made and buy it "fresh off the easel".In South Africa, Snyman says she's one of "the crazy few" in this field. "I've had security fetch me from the edge of a cliff." She has painted under the full moon in the Kalahari, and at the foot of Epupa Falls on the border of Angola and Namibia. "I've hiked kilometres into the mountains and camped ... Traipsed through vineyards and come home dirty and sweaty, all in the name of art." Facing rain, hail, mosquitoes ...It's nearing sunset. There's a feeling of euphoria and calm, watching the sea, and watching her paint it.Her speech is fast, urgent, like her brush strokes. "Hang on, I have to put these notes down." She is a figure on the rocks bent over her canvas, chasing the light. It's said that American portrait painter John Singer Sargent could only paint at dusk, for a few minutes every day. Snyman says the time constraint of plein air painting appeals to her. "It sharpens your observation skills because you have to put down immediately what you see without thinking too much." The result, she says, is something more convincing because the live experience enlivens the painting. The waves on her canvas look as if they might jump from it.Snyman has poor eyesight. Growing up on a farm near Upington, she would lie on the ground, inventing a world in which ants were people. "When I got my glasses I got the fright of my life. Because you are formed as a child, my way of looking at the world is still from up close."She won an international arts award for her painting of a section of Meiringspoort mountain pass. That she painted from there, her boots in the mud, is something you sense when you look at the painting. "There's an honesty in plein air painting, an atmosphere, because the smells, sounds, all those things that you experience as an artist work their way in."It's uncomfortable. The sun burning our necks. Our bottoms on the jagged rocks. Art installation explores colonialism through the eyes of a white maleAnastasia Dukhanina, a Russian plein air artist who paints in the snow, says: "I think it is important if you paint winter, you should be cold. It is fair." Snyman pays homage to the pioneering spirit of early landscape artists, who travelled by mule and steam ship and hiked carrying heavy easels. Artists who toiled for their art. Painting "en plein air" gained popularity with the Impressionists. Today, says Rhoads, Monet's art fetches around $100-million. "The old masters were such good painters because they painted from life," says Snyman, who speaks at length about the fickleness of memory and the restrictions of photography."A camera lies. No camera can see what the human eye does. You have to observe how something moves, what is its character. And then you have to think about the brush strokes that will give it that character."Like the plein air masters of old, light is her obsession. "Some people paint turquoise waves. It's not like that. It's a question of light, not colour. We only paint what light reveals to us. That's what makes the impressionists amazing."Snyman and her husband Pieter J Kruger work from their studio in Sir Lowry's Pass. The pair often go out together, art supplies in their backpacks, to brave new lands and paint them. Kruger, a landscape artist known for his almost luminous use of colour, says discovering plein air painting has made him a better artist. Inspired, his aim is to grow the plein air art community in South Africa. "Artwork in South Africa has become stale. I want to leave something behind ... encourage the growth in the quality of art."Painting en plein air, he says, opens you up. "You're not dead anymore. You hear the birds, see beautiful surroundings."Snyman adds: "It's the job of an artist to capture their times. Working from life gives a real version of things."A wave nearly drenches us. "We might get wet," she says, "how gorgeous would that be?"