Okay, something as abstract as a rule clearly isn't going to be entirely responsible for producing the kind of roller coaster tie that Manchester City and AS Monaco laid on.Kylian Mbapp , Radamel Falcao, Sergio Ag ero and Leroy San might have had something to do with it. But the much-maligned away-goals rule certainly helped make the two legs what they were."I've never understood why one goal should be worth more than another," BT Sport presenter Gary Lineker said after a 6-6 aggregate result saw City crash out. He followed the TV coverage with a couple of tweets, stating his views that "no goal should be of greater value than another" and that the away-goals rule "kills so many games". Red danger for troubled PepCriticism of the rule generally follows Lineker's template. Why should Monaco's three goals scored at the Etihad mean more than the three they scored at home this week?Some contend that the rule makes home teams too cautious, particularly in first legs, left paralysed by the fear of conceding a potentially lethal away goal.But this latest round of Champions League fixtures has utterly disproved such concerns.Out of eight ties in the round, City's was the only one to be decided by away goals. Even in that match, the rule enhanced the tie far more than it killed it.In both legs the home side went for the win, racking up 12 goals in total, eight of them scored by the hosts.Over the course of 180 minutes the lead changed hands six times, with Tiemoue Bakayoko's 77th-minute goal on Wednesday night proving decisive.The rule means ties can swing dramatically in favour of one team to the other after a single goal, the result of which is more exciting games. Ars ne draws more ire as Gunners loseWith Monaco 2-0 up (ahead on away goals with the scores level at 5-5), Pep Guardiola was forced to go for broke in the second half. The match opened up wonderfully and we saw City attack the game, giving us a far more entertaining match.Leicester City's historic win over Sevilla also benefitted from the away-goals rule.When Wes Morgan put his side level at 2-2 and ahead on away goals, the Spaniards were forced to attack rather than engage in a game of low-risk chess. Leicester hit them on the counter and scored again.Clearly, Lineker, the argument that the away-goals rule kills matches is misplaced. In fact, the Champions League is thriving as a result of it.Goals are being scored more freely than ever before and Europe's elite competition is all the better for away goals counting double. - The Telegraph