What does your job as a business owner and beautician involve?My job as a beautician involves doing treatments such as facials, pedicures, manicures and massages.As a business owner, it involves offering good-quality service and being professional and friendly at all times, keeping a smile on my face and giving my clients a warm welcome.What do you think makes your salon a place clients want to visit?My clients, men and women, feel at home at our salon. They are all valued and treated with respect. I think we have been successful in creating a friendly and welcoming environment.The treatments we offer are also more personal and individualised.I would say that I consult more with my clients than the average salon.What is the best part of your job?Doing facials, because they're like an uplifting treatment for both me and my client. A client walks in with a dull or tired face and walks out with a happy, clean, radiant and glowing face.What parts of your job would you prefer to outsource?For now, nothing, but maybe when we grow into a larger company I would need help with accounting and finances.What did you want to be when you were a child?An accountant, because my dad used to run a tuck shop from home and I kept a notebook and wrote down all the details if the clients bought on credit or paid cash.What do you think makes someone a good beautician?I think it is a combination of your personality and your professionalism. It's all about good service and loving what you do.What drew you to this career?I used to paint my own nails and my friends' nails. I also used to wear my mom's makeup as a child, which I really enjoyed.What mistakes have you made as a beautician that led to your biggest lesson?My biggest mistake and lesson was doing a treatment without finding out what main concern my client had about the treatment I was about to do. I made that mistake only once.For example, if a client comes and says: "I want my eyebrows waxed and tinted," I ask her detailed questions around the desired shape of her brows and the exact colour.You need a lot of details to do a good job and to have a happy, satisfied client. This job is not only about my skills and experience - it's very much about the clients' needs and wants.What was your first paying job, and what did you learn there?My first paying job was as a beauty therapist in a small salon.There I learnt all about professionalism, cleanliness and working hard.What are your four top beauty tips?1. Always use sunscreen during the day to protect your skin;2. Always clean your face in the evening if you use makeup during the day;3. Apply cuticle oil to your nails at least twice a week for healthy nails; and4. Drink at least six to eight glasses of water each day to avoid dehydration.