The darker the better and with a touch of gloss is the lip of the season (as pictured above). Shades of oxblood, blackened berry and black with an almost vinyl quality were seen at shows like Max Mara and Pugh. It's a precision-lined lip drenched in high-shine gloss as the once-goth staple becomes a polished statement.THE SHOW: Edun THE KIT: 1. Dolce Matte Lipstick in 322 Dolce Magnetic R710; Black Up Matte Lipstick in 29M R295; Bobbi Brown Crystal Lip Gloss R290Black graphic liner is not about to disappear any time soon - this time around, it's a little smudged and tucked into the waterline. Last season saw the jet black liner drawn into the crease, framing the corners of the eyes or applied onto the brow bone. Now it's less about the razor sharpness of the line and all about the mood. Think last night's party eye makeup the next morning.THE SHOW: Emilio Pucci THE KIT: Dolce &amp; Gabbana The Khol Pencil in #1 True Black R350; Essence Super Precise Eyeliner in Black R60; CHANEL Calligraphie de Chanel Longwear Intense Cream Eyeliner in 65 Hyperblack R560How to nail a low ponytail (it's the hairdo of the moment!)The quintessential hairstyles of the Gatsby era are back and making waves. Sport a head of finger waves like a 1920s flapper girl or keep hair loosely rolled into full waves like they did in the '50s.THE SHOW: I'm Isola MarrasTHE KIT: ghd Tail Comb R149; ghd Final Fix Hairspray 400ml R210; Lee Stafford Frizz Off Keratib Smoothing Spray R120This season's nails are less about the flash and more minimalist. Nail art has always been huge on the runways, from models sporting geometric prints to chrome nails - but negative space nails are slowly making a subtle but noteworthy impression. Add a pastel trim along the nail tip or go for a single solid stripe from nail bed to tip. Less is definitely more.THE SHOW: VivettaTHE KIT: Sorbet Pro Gel Effect in Tint of Mint R110; YSL La Laque Couture in 5 Corail Divin R390; 3INA The Gel Look Top Coat R100Get on top of your face masking game with this quick guideWith careful placement and artful blending, colour becomes less theatrical and more wearable this season. A sweet departure from the pop art David Bowie-inspired eyes of previous seasons; eyes are awash with bold acid colours melding into one another from socket to cheek - the key is to blend, blend and blend some more.THE SHOW: Marques AlmeidaTHE KIT: MAC Pigment in Chartreuse R170; 3INA The Metallic Eyeshadow in 508 R130Reserve your fascinator and flower crowns for a day at the races - the new take on hair accessorising is going vintage. Resembling a carefully crafted tapestry, these embellishments are anything from beaded hair barrettes, embroidered floral designs or printed scarves wrapped around the hair.THE SHOW: Antonio MarrasTHE KIT: Scarf, R149, H&amp;M; Style Republic headband, R29, Spree; Alice band, R149, H&amp;MDouble-duty products that'll make the most of your beauty budgetWhen every retro wave had hit the runways - from the mod lashes of the '60s to the hair flicks of the '70s - no era was more welcome than Studio 54's disco . The sparkle is back in a big way with glitter seen just about everywhere. Whether flecks are carefully placed along the eyelids or smattered like skin jewellery along the cheeks, it's a party and you're invited.THE SHOW: Emanuel UngaroTHE KIT: Wet n Wild Color Icon Glitter Single Eyeshadow in Spiked R35; NYX Ultra Pearl Mania Eyeshadow in White 5ml R50; Urban Decay Heavy Metal in Glam Rock R300 Forget the gel-slicked super-sleeked hair of last season - the update is lacquered hair that is jagged, slightly moulded with a little bit of attitude. Using a combination of gels and moulding clays, hair has a semi-wet grunge appeal. THE SHOW: Rick OwensTHE KIT: 1. Morrocanoil Texture Clay R385; Clicks Wet Look Styling Hold Styling Gel 500ml R43; L'Oreal Studio Fix &amp; Force Multi Vitamins Gel Strong Hold 150ml R80