At some point my partner-in-crime said, "Darn it, look at the time. I have to go to work in the morning." Well, he didn't say "darn it", but you know what I mean. He then got a faraway look in his eye and told me how lucky I was to be a glorified bum who didn't need to wake up in the wee hours and make the trek to "the plantation". And then he said something flippant that I thought was actually profound: "Sometimes I want to tell my boss that when I came asking for a job, I lied. What I really wanted was the money, not the work." Strip naked & play in the rain to prevent future droughtsI'm notorious for my sweeping generalisations and I'm not going to disappoint now. The majority of humans who keep this country and any other country ticking are just like my friend. People want the money whether or not they have the appetite or capability for the work. I have yet to hear of anyone who protested against their appointment as director of finance on the basis that their highest academic achievement was an E in biblical studies in matric. It's always a case of, "The package is what? R1.6-million before perks? Oh, I'm so in!" And then they spend the next few years burrowing inside a cocoon of inertia like a tapeworm inside a fat man's gut.I have plenty of experience in the art of work avoidance. My first job wasn't even really a job. I was some kind of administrator with a fancy title along the lines of "uber national co-ordinator for special projects" for an NGO. My Braamfontein office wasn't too far from the University of the Witwatersrand, which meant that I spent a disproportionate amount of time checking out babes at Jeff's cafeteria. The rest of the time I spent looking for conferences to attend. Conferences come with free food and plenty of boxed wine.My next job was as a high-school teacher in the Umgeni Valley in KwaZulu-Natal. This was one of the few jobs I was ever really good at, because liking the sound of one's voice is a distinct advantage when you're a teacher. In the more than four years I was teaching I took only a handful of sick days. I was giving extra lessons every Saturday and even July holidays. By the third year the curriculum was coursing through my veins to the point where I was walking into biology classes and reproducing the Krebs cycle from memory, with ATP molecules whizzing all over the blackboard.It was not until I joined the corporate world that I discovered just what an unmotivated, lazy bastard I was. There were mornings when I would wake up and tune into the news in the hope that my factory had been engulfed in an inferno. I just wanted the money, not the work.Don't get me wrong. I became quite good at my job. I remember getting a call from the factory while watching Bafana Bafana embarrass themselves in shorts at Kings Park Stadium one Saturday. Production had stopped. The margarine was lumpy. I had the operator read out the lab results of the blend. Without a calculator I said, "Top up the tank with 1.5 tons of sunflower oil, stir for 45 minutes and start packing again."The main reason I never thrived in the corporate world is that whole ladder setup. That's my story and I'm sticking to it. Being brilliant at what you do is punishable by deliberate stagnation. The ingredients you need to climb the ladder are ambition, willingness to be a resident up your superiors' collective colons, and Machiavellian deceit. What sets the go-getters apart is the ability to convince all and sundry that you're passionate about your work. If that means leaving the office at 11pm and being back by 6.30am the following morning, then so be it.What the F is wrong with a little swearing?Where most people lose the plot is that they allow an insignificant factor such as their hatred for their jobs to become a stumbling block in their pursuit of professional success. That path always leads to Loserville. Winners realise that there's no point in hating your job and simultaneously being paid poorly for doing it.I learned this one random Tuesday afternoon during my corporate days. One of the managers in my department had created a general workaholic tag about himself. He was a Stakhanovite when it came to his work. Earlier that day, he had walked around the open plan office, looking flustered, barking furiously into his phone and cursing. Finally, around 10am, he mumbled something about needing to go "sort out this mess with the supplier".The cat being away, this unmotivated mouse decided to go and play at the Dros at Gateway Mall. As I walked towards the bar I saw a familiar figure, fondling an ice-cold draught.Our eyes met for a brief 0.3 seconds. I did the right thing. I pretended that I hadn't seen him, turned around and went in search of another pub.To this day, we've never spoken about it. Follow the author of this article, Ndumiso Ngcobo, on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo