She suggested some may receive questionable payments in addition to salaries.Pandor is now leading the charge for ANC leaders to undergo lifestyle audits, saying some cannot afford their lifestyles on their salaries.Speaking to the Sunday Times this week, Pandor said the ANC had failed to implement a decision taken by the national executive committee last year for party leaders' lifestyles to be scrutinised. High tax 'will wake rich into getting involved'"How would a colleague have a 13-bedroom house and another a three-bedroom house? [They have] 13 bedrooms in Sandringham or something and I have a three-bedroom in Claremont. "For me it just seems standard that we can begin to identify where there are problems if public institutions do their work," she said.Pandor questioned how some leaders owned paid-up houses and others were "going around getting $10,000 [about R125,000] or 20,000 [about R270,000]", beyond their state salaries."They should start asking questions about those people. It is well beyond what we earn. So this is what I am saying: are our institutions so useless that they are unable to identify some of these things?" The call, supported by the ANC's national executive committee, has been rejected by supporters of President Jacob Zuma as a move that would be "tantamount to policing black wealth".But those who are behind the move argue that it will prove that the party is serious about fighting corruption in its ranks.Pandor lambasted the party for failing to implement its decision."When we take a decision we must take it seriously and act on it and on the lifestyle audits. I don't think we have acted," she told the Sunday Times. Pandor, whose name is being bandied about as a possible candidate for a top position at the ANC's elective conference in December, said that if the ANC was serious about investigating its senior members, it would find a way to do it. She said no NEC member would, at least openly, reject calls to provide the party with bank records and statements. "It is to eliminate any notion that you are a public official who is in receipt of illicit support. I think public officials are serving for the public good and we should be absolutely above board." Lifestyle audits are not all that Pandor is passionate about. When we take a decision we must take it seriously and act on it and on the lifestyle audits. I don't think we have acted She expressed a strong aversion to ministers quarrelling in public, particularly the attacks against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. "I don't believe that I must be so desperate for power that I should destroy another comrade in the public domain, or seek to undermine them in any way. "To me that just means you don't love the ANC as you should, nor do you love South Africa as you should." Pandor has long been regarded as a voice of reason in Zuma's cabinet and the ANC. She is known for taking principled positions, and rarely speaks out of turn. It is perhaps why her name is often brought up as an efficient ANC leader. Pandor is mentioned as a possible deputy to Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa in the ANC elections.But the feisty minister revealed that she had refused to be part of those lobbying her for any top position until ANC branches raised her name through party structures.She said she once stormed out of a dinner event that was a lobbying caucus aimed at nudging her to take up a political campaign. "When I got there I realised something else was happening and I spoke to another colleague that was there. I said: 'Com, I don't think this is what we thought it was. Let's leave.' And we left," she said.She did not reveal further details about the event and who had invited her.hunterq@sundaytimes.co.za