Apparently there is a new dating app called Hater Dating which matches couples based on their mutual dislikes. Hmm. Might work. If you think about it, mutual antipathies are crucial to friendships.Friendship is all about shared dislikes. You make friends precisely because they can't stick the same things as you - whether that's cycling or almond-milk lattes. I'm pretty sure that's what friendship is, day to day: checking in to update the list of things that annoy, and to confirm we are still on the same page. Beards? Ghastly. Nespresso? Overrated. Neighbour's new husband? Hateful. Ooh, feel better already.Friendship is lots of things but key among them is the warm, fuzzy feeling of confidence that what grinds your gears is also grinding theirs. It's the difference between easy-peasy light acquaintances and We Get It friendships.Why being 'friends with benefits' is ALWAYS a bad ideaYou can't bond with people over your mutual likes. "Ooh, I love prawns." "Me, too. I love India." "Same!" This level of discovery might be appropriate between teenage strangers in a bus queue. It gets you nowhere.What do you hate, mate? That's the interesting question. What brings you out in hives? If you want real connection you need to establish pet peeves in common. We're not talking about nasty stuff, rest assured; just the little hates, the telling ones.Hate bonding (the only real bonding) is discovering you have a shared sensitivity to beanies worn at the table and Bluetooth earpieces. It's both of you wincing at mothers shouting: "Good job!" when their children make it safely down the slide. It's talking against those elbowy running couples and anyone who is heading for the Burning Man festival.It's countless small and medium-sized dislikes - zumba, dog shows, athleisurewear, people interfering with your signature salad dressing, teeth veneers, people (mainly women) who pretend they find stockings and suspenders "more comfortable", late-life male ear piercings, unsolicited critiques of recent films, especially La La Land. (This one has become particularly unbearable. Everyone is supposed to have an opinion and be prepared to argue it while the opposite viewpoint shouts you down.)That's the basic cement of friendship. Then, if you want to make it into the circle of trust, you need that breakthrough moment when one of you says: "I can't sit through any more of this," and the other one thinks, "Thank you, Lord. And I thought it was only me."Want to live a healthier life? Make friendsHate bonding has a deeper function, too. It's how you know you are on the same wavelength about everything. Because the collected hates of a person are what reveals their beliefs and values. Who hasn't thought with a terrible lurch: "Oh God, they hate the wrong stuff; I have made a terrible mistake," when faced with smokers being banished into the rain or the cricket being turned off?And these are the people, by the way, who almost certainly love all the right things. You can't trust the love list. Oh no. Everyone loves David Bowie. Everyone cares about whales. It's what they don't like that gives them away.Hate bonding is more necessary than ever now because there's so much pressure to join the loving consensus. Every week there's another set of Must Loves.What you really need are friends who are prepared to say: "I always hated musicals. I am certainly not going to give them a go now." It just makes you feel less alone. - The Daily Telegraph