"No, thank you, I don't drink whiskey."The waiter, with his arm frozen in mid-air, the bottle in his hand positioned to almost flow and his mouth agape, barely managed to mask his incredulity."Sir doesn't drink whiskey?" he repeated, obviously thinking he'd misheard.My husband laughed. "Would you mind bringing me some cold water, please?"The boisterous chatter in the room suddenly fell silent and heads turned in the direction of our table.A funny thing happened on my hunt for a Cuban cigarWe were, after all, in the tasting room-cum-convivial-pub that forms the heart of The Old Bushmills Distillery in Northern Ireland, where water is usually only imbibed as one of the base ingredients of the golden nectar that is premium Irish whiskey."May I ask where sir is from?" inquired the waiter. My husband duly explained that we hailed from Northern Ireland but had lived in South Africa for more than 30 years."Ah," said the waiter. "Would sir perhaps prefer a brandy and Coke?"It turned out that our friendly waiter had included SA on his round-the-world back-packing-trip a few years before and happily familiarised himself with the local dop. His astonishment at encountering an Irishman who would eschew a glass of free whiskey was now tempered with the humour of nostalgia.The Old Bushmills Distillery has a rich heritage. It's the oldest working distillery in Ireland and has been around for more than 400 years. Its triple-distilled whiskey is legendary far and wide and even boasts numerous literary mentions, including James Joyce's Ulysses and, more recently, in The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (Stieg Larsson).The opportunity to tour the plant followed by a whiskey tasting was too good an opportunity to miss and we were having a grand time, especially after I'd managed to persuade our globe-trotting waiter to share my hubby's unwanted samples between the rest of us at the table.The distillery is located in the heart of the village of Bushmills, in the lush rural countryside of County Antrim. This is a quintessential Irish village with a pub on every corner and a few more in between.There are fewer than 2,000 inhabitants but its inland location on the Causeway Coast, just 3km from the famous Giants Causeway, attracts thousands of tourists year round.The Giants Causeway is one of the most amazing places on Earth, a natural phenomenon comprising thousands of hexagonal stones stepping gently into the sea. These stones were formed either by the geological processes within an ancient volcano or, as locals would prefer to have it, the giants of legend who stomped the coastline, raging battles of gargantuan extremes.The story goes that the Irish giant, Fionn mac Cumhaill (Finn MacCool), from the Fenian Cycle of Gaelic mythology, was challenged to a fight by the Scottish giant, Benandonner. Fionn accepted the challenge and built the causeway across the North Channel so that the two giants could meet. A funny thing happened when Trump showed up at my New York hotelThe magic and mystery surrounding this legend permeate the village of Bushmills with its quaint buildings and weathered locals. The River Bush meanders through the town and provides a frequent, joyful sight of leaping salmon. The village's two celebrated culinary products are honoured annually in the town's Salmon and Whiskey Festival.The oldest tavern in the village (1803) is named after the legendary Finn MacCool and it was to here that we retired to sample some rather larger servings of the local brew. There, we caused more of a stir as we shared a bag of dulse. Dulse is a vitamin-rich, reddish-purple seaweed, salty and tangy, that is harvested locally. It's a popular snack in Northern Ireland.The tavern was chock-a-block with tourists, all of whom took great interest in our curious choice of pub grub."It's good for you," encouraged my uncle, with whiskey-laced bonhomie, generously handing out straggly portions to all and sundry. We laughed as German, US, Dutch and Scottish tastebuds were assaulted by the strong, briny flavour; faces twisted in surprise and a few equally salty comments were uttered. Dulse is definitely an acquired taste.Bushmills is a great wee town that fairly buzzes with laughter and chatter. So great, in fact, that a few weeks after our visit our host-relatives bought a house there true story! Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za