LOCATIONOn its own island called Falhumaafushi in the Gaafu Alifu Atoll at the southern end of the Maldivian archipelago. It's a 55-minute flight from Mal , the capital, and then a seven-minute speedboat ride from Kooddoo Island, where the airport is.This may be the best boat ride of your life, for there is nothing like skipping over the turquoise sea to the shimmering palms in whose shade The Residence sprawls to let you know that you have, in fact, arrived.The best thing to do in Mauritius is nothing at allSTYLEThe Residence is the only resort on the tiny island, which is 1km long and just 120m wide at its thickest point. There are 94 villas 19 on the beach, the rest water villas built over the sea.Nearly half the water villas have private infinity pools and it was here that I bobbed around for most of my stay, day and night, revelling in the sight and sound of the sea lapping below me.The style is a mix of French plantation house and local design thatched roofs and airy interiors emphasised by high ceilings and sliding doors that open wide to let in the view and tropical air.As always, it's the little things you remember an outdoor shower with the sound of the ocean all around; local art on the walls; a bed the size of a football field on which it would be tempting to spend your entire holiday, gazing at the sea and getting up only to fall into the pool. Rest. Rinse. Repeat.SERVICEThe smiles start with your personal butler who is always on call. Now, I like to be left to my own devices when staying somewhere and the concerned look on "my" butler's face when I told him as much was a measure of how seriously they take this job.The service throughout the resort, from front desk to restaurants to housekeeping, is of the same calibre prompt, friendly and helpful. When I asked for one of the cruiser bicycles that guests use to crank around the island, it was delivered within minutes to the door of my villa, almost as fast as the wifi that operated at the speed of light.</img>The Maldives' blue skies and bluer seas. Image: SuppliedThe Maldives' blue skies and bluer seas. Image: SuppliedHOW'S THE GRUB?The food is what you would expect from a five-star resort pretty decent, drawing on Indian, Asian and "world cuisine". The main dining room has theme nights so one night it may be the tastes of Arabia, the next the cooking of the Indian Ocean.Do have at least one dinner at The Falhumaa, which perches over the reef at the end of the 230m-long jetty from the main island. As dining experiences go, it is spectacular you dine at the edge of the deck with the ocean crashing onto the reef just metres away, while reef fish dart about below your feet, hoping for bits of bread and not to be hoisted out of the sea and onto someone's plate.ACTIVITIESThe four necessities of a fantastic holiday eating, sleeping, swimming, chilling are in abundance here. You can go on private beach picnics, do yoga at sunset, learn to mix cocktails from the barman and do a cooking course with the executive chef.All resort-style watersports are on offer too. The Maldives is synonymous with diving and there is a Padi dive centre offering dives in a few spectacular locations, or so I hear.I'm not a diver (bad ears) so settled for a snorkel along the house reef. The first creature I saw was a turtle, drifting along in the big blue. It gazed at me lugubriously for a while then swam off. Since I've never even seen a turtle on a beach, that pretty much made my stay. The laid-back vibe of the Seychelles is contagiousBEST TIME TO GOThe island is a mere 20km north of the Equator and the year-round temperature is a balmy 30 C. So any time is good, really, but maybe avoid the European summer holidays when things can get a little crowded.FACILITIESYou can get pummelled or soothed at the Clarins Spa, and there are cruiser bikes to get around on don't ride off the walkway into the sea, though, as it's a long way down. There's also a well-stocked library, an infinity pool at the beachfront bar with suitable private loungers and a kids' club.RATESThe Maldives is a dollar-denominated destination and prices at most resorts vary widely according to demand. Rates for The Residence start from $871 per villa per night but a test booking on expedia.com for travel in April turned up a special offer of $421/night.As always, it pays to research special offers on expedia.com, booking.com and hotel.com.CONTACTEmail info-maldives@theresidence.com or see cenizaro.com/theresidence/maldives-fm. WIN A WEEK AT THE RESIDENCE Woolworths is offering customers the opportunity to win a seven-night trip for two to The Residence in the Maldives worth R150,000 in celebration of the launch of their MSC-certified canned tuna that is caught in the Maldives using pole and line catch method.To stand a chance to win, purchase any Woolworths-branded MSC-certified canned tuna, swipe your MySchool or Woolworths card, then SMS tuna and your card number to 43858. Competition closes May 28 2017.- Ash was a guest of The Residence Maldives and Woolworths