PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)You couldn't be happier. And if not, you're not paying attention. The planets are ready to take your order. If you're unsure, start with small decisions. The universe is a literal beast. If you wander about, head in hand, telling yourself you're a fat, hideous failure, the universe will oblige. So change your thoughts and words this instant. You're a fabulous, gorgeous, irresistible person. Got it?ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)The love planet is taking an extended break in your sign but she's in a mischievous mood. You know how quickly you rise to the bait of a new challenge. Not allowed. This week calls on all your patience, tolerance and forgiveness. You'll discover that few people are perfect. And you'll learn to love that about them. Either way, there are plenty of love vibes on offer if you're looking.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Your planets are playing up, stealing your confidence and leaving you slightly lost. But that's only if you're still trying to control the uncontrollable. Make a list of what you can control and write down the best possible outcome for each item. Whenever you're losing it, go back to your list and do what needs to be done. The lesson is about learning to trust yourself to attract whatever is needed.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Your natural charm is working its magic. You're surrounded by everything and everyone you need to climb those interesting new ladders. Career is your focus and you'll be working longer hours. You may be wondering where all this is going, but with the planets as delicious as they currently are, you'll soon begin to see results. Not that there's any need to take giant risks, though. Smile.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Temper, temper. The mad planets have snuck in and are egging you on. Watch yourself carefully. This is fantastic energy when used for creativity or intuitive insights. But the real world could take a pounding. Watch your driving, your words and your possessions. You're clumsy and careless. So, a locked room, a cup of cocoa and a packet of crayons - you never know what you'll come up with.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Something interesting is going on here and it's related to your career. You're about to find out what all those meetings behind closed doors were about. If you behave yourself, you should be extremely happy with the results. Maybe you'll be posted elsewhere, or simply allocated a new line of work. Don't forget to ask the family where they stand. They're feeling left out of your life.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)The planet of luck and opportunity is with you, but he's taking the scenic route. There's a chance to make money here, but it won't be the one that's staring you in the face. This is where your gift for discrimination and inner knowing will come in handy. Anything that seems too easy, will be. But if you're ready with a plan and a destination, start the ball rolling today. Ask for help.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Your planet has just moved into reverse for six weeks. Not a train smash, but certainly something to be aware of. With Venus off-kilter, your relationships (love, in particular) will be questioned and you'll be wondering who you can trust. Your finances will wobble and you'll be asking yourself what is important to you. Use the time to work on yourself and your own insecurities.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Any inheritance issues on the horizon? Tax or joint finances? Whichever it is, call in the experts or there's going to be a war. Find someone who's more diplomatic than you to negotiate on your behalf. Your career is taking a fascinating new turn. If it's services or ideas you're offering, try for a more innovative approach. The market is ready for something different. Look around for assistance.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Waiting for the love life to magically improve is one way of doing it, but it's an approach that could take longer than you'd planned. Alternatively, include the lovers in your life; let them know what you're doing and why you're so busy. Miscommunication can happen in an instant and have lasting effects. In a week like this, when the love planets are crazy, you'll be lucky to hang on at all. Behave.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)It's back to the grindstone for you. There are proposals to be written and emails to be sent. Fortunately, your communication skills are constantly being enhanced. So seize your opportunities and get creative. Happily, you're feeling good about yourself right now. Your health is glowing, your eyes are sparkling and your energy is infectious. Start each day with an enormous smile.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)The idea of a challenge is not one that excites you. You'd much rather shine from the basis of a sure thing. Well, maybe next time. This week the challenges could be heavier than you'd hoped - stretching you beyond limits not even you knew you had. Stay calm, ask for help, and do what you can do. You'll be amazed at the levels of your own genius. And you'll even enjoy being tested for a change.