Daleen Els successfully sued the health MEC in the province for the operation at Kimberley Hospital in 2001. The operation on Els's right breast resulted in "severe pain and led to numerous visits to doctors [and] hospitals for medical treatment" until 2009.Dr Hendrik Pienaar, a former principal specialist and senior lecturer in the department of surgery at the University of Pretoria's Steve Biko Academic Hospital, testified on behalf of Els. He told the court that he sat on a procurement committee that assesses the quality of medical materials imported to South Africa. He said surgical equipment used in public hospitals was often substandard."His evidence was that, with cost constraints and other prohibitions, the quality of surgical material used by the various health departments is often found to be inferior and that breakages occur," the judgment in the case read.The department argued that Els's condition was caused by her smoking habit, but the High Court in Kimberley ruled in her favour last month. The department has been refused leave to appeal.Els had the needle tip removed at a private hospital in Bloemfontein.Joe Maila, a spokesman for Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi, told the Sunday Times this week that the "tender specifications for medical-related items such as needles and syringes" complied with South Africa Bureau of Standards (SABS) regulations."To ensure this compliance products must either bear the SABS mark or potential suppliers must submit samples for testing to the SABS."Only products that meet SABS requirements are considered," said Maila. "Secondly, end-users are given an opportunity to test the samples for usability. The decision to award [tenders] based on the cost of the item is only made if the product complies with both of the above."Els said she wanted to put the saga behind her."It was hell. I don't think anyone can describe the agony," she said. "Sometimes I couldn't work and would have to call in sick ... there were times when the pain was so bad that I could not use my hands."After the object was removed she said she felt much better. There are residual problems, but she is not willing to undergo surgery again.Her lawyer, Hentie van Niekerk, said damages had yet to be determined."I hope doctors are held accountable for the damage they caused her," said Van Niekerk.