It is a sunny April morning in the Mediterranean and a strong wind is powering up the Kos Channel, the strip of churning blue that divides mainland Turkey from the Greek islands of Rhodes and Kos.I can feel the timbers quivering beneath my feet as our gulet a traditional Turkish sailing vessel motors to Knidos, an anchorage founded 360 years before the birth of Christ.A lighthouse on the high cliffs marks the ragged end of the Dat a peninsula and we give it a wide berth as we round the headland where a half-sunken freighter lies in the shallows."That sort of thing," says our guide, "is what made Knidos so important."Discover the sexy side of Ma Nature in TurkeyWe ease into the bay and suddenly it is flat calm. It is the perfect anchorage, protected from the weather and sited at the extreme southwestern tip of Asia Minor right on the growing sea route between the Mediterranean and Aegean seas.The city which could be seen from miles out to sea was built for effect. Terraces rose in ranks up the mountainside and on these were the classic fa ades, temples and theatres, with a temple to Aphrodite at the very top. Some 70,000 people once called it home.Knidos is one of many treasures we visited on a week-long voyage down Turkey's Ceramic Coast.At Iasos, under a hill studded with olive trees and grazing cattle, we clambered around ruins stamped with the marks of successive civilisations a theatre dedicated to Dionysus, Roman tombs, and two Byzantine churches. At the top of the hill, in a secluded olive grove, is a Roman villa with mosaic tiled floors and red paint still on its walls.(The city, occupied as far back as the Bronze Age, was famous, apparently, for its fish and judging by the number of cats waiting on the dockside for the boats, this is still true.)In Bodrum, we gazed at Samian wine amphorae and fragile glass unguentaria which look as if they were made yesterday retrieved from Byzantine merchant ships that wrecked on this coast thousands of years ago.There were copper ingots from Cyprus, glass billets, storage jars from the Levant and seals and fragments of gold scrap from Egypt, a time capsule of Bronze Age trade.</img> Looking down on the Mediterranean from the Castle of St Peter in Bodrum. Image: Paul AshLooking down on the Mediterranean from the Castle of St Peter in Bodrum. Image: Paul AshWhen we weren't stepping through history, we were eating and drinking at waterfront tavernas or aboard the gulet itself where the cook delighted us with local treats such as imam byaladi aubergines stuffed with tomato, onion and peppers and chickpeas served with leeks and celery, bell peppers stuffed with spicy meats and thick, creamy yoghurt and minty potatoes.In between sailing, eating and lolling on the loungers on deck, we swam in the bracing, clear sea in secluded bays and hiked up hillsides studded with olive trees. At the top we looked down on bays and anchorages which felt as old as time itself.It was, simply, the best holiday ever. PLAN YOUR TRIP CRUISE OPTIONS: We sailed aboard the superb Sultan A, which carries 14 people in four double and four twin cabins. This gulet is now chartered by various operators. One is Peter Sommer Travels, which offers various gulet packages including an eight-day cruise to Ephesus (prices from 2,365). See petersommer.com. On the southern Turkish coast, Busabout offers Sail Turkey, an all-inclusive, seven-night package priced from R7,620 per person sharing on board a gulet. Aimed more at a younger market, the gulet cruises from Fethiye to Butterfly Valley, Boncuk Bay, St Nicholas Island, Kas, Smugglers Cove, Demre, Limanagzi and Kalkan. To book, contact Busabout on 011-280-8400 or visit busabout.com.THE AIRLINE:Turkish Airlines offers the quickest route to the Ceramic Coast. The airline has daily flights from Joburg and Cape Town to Istanbul, from where you will catch a connecting flight to Bodrum (for the Ephesus cruise) or Dalaman, the closest airport to Fethiye.Current return fares from Joburg to Istanbul start at R8,003, and R8,349 from Cape Town. It makes sense to plan a 24-hour stopover in Istanbul to give you a chance to take a cruise on the Bosphorus and see this incredible city.To book your flight, visit turkishairlines.com or phone 086-188-7547.