One way to get your trip started off with a bang is to book your accommodation in the vibrant Fisherman's Wharf neighbourhood. The Wharf encompasses the northern waterfront area of San Francisco, from Ghirardelli Square to Pier 35, and there is loads to do. From Madame Tussauds to the Ripley's Believe It or Not! Museum, from the shopping to the world-class dining, you're sure to find something to keep you entertained. Peace, love & travel revolution in San Francisco A San Francisco icon, the cable-car system has three operating routes and is a useful way to get around the city. Feel the groan of the cable car as it slowly climbs the steep hills, and the controlled descent as the driver works the hand-operated brakes. Buy a day pass for extra freedom, and jump on/off at any stop, or change onto a different route at your leisure.The Ferry Building is located in the Embarcadero district and it still serves as a terminal for ferries that travel across the bay. There is also a bustling market, where you can buy all sorts of yummy treats, including freshly prepared foods, cheeses and coffee.With a portion of the bridge thought to be seismically vulnerable, the eastern span replacement was finally completed after 12 years of construction in September 2013. With its new, self-anchored suspension bridge and transporting nearly a quarter of a million vehicles daily, it gives the more famous Golden Gate Bridge a run for its money.</img>The Oakland Bay Bridge. Image: IMRAN KHAN The Oakland Bay Bridge. Image: IMRAN KHAN Located in the Russian Hill neighbourhood and claimed to be the "most crooked street in the world", Lombard Street consists of a one-block section with eight hairpin bends! Wait at the bottom and watch how cars slowly wind their way down, usually driven by tourists who are capturing the experience on video.Only 2km from San Francisco, Alcatraz Island was home to a federal penitentiary from 1934 to 1963, with notorious criminals such as Al Capone and Robert "the Birdman" Stroud. On the island itself you can do the audio tour, narrated by correctional officers who lived on the island as well as several inmates. Listening to the narrated portrayals of historic events such as the "Battle of 46" and the "Dummy head escape", you're guaranteed to get goosebumps.Yes, it's predictable but you just have to. Hopefully you can navigate easily between the tourists and traffic, and get a clear view of the bridge for that obligatory "I was there" snapshot. Alternatively, there are great tours available where you can ride a bicycle across the bridge, which includes a ferry that takes you back to the city from the other side.Just across the bridge in the southwestern county of Marin, Muir Woods is home of the giant coastal Redwoods, which are the tallest trees in the world. In these woods, the tallest trees can reach up to 78m, and up to 115m further up the northern coast. The experience of walking through the woods is breathtaking, at times neck-straining and, by the time you leave, humbling.</img>Giant redwoods pierce the sky in Muir Woods. Image: muirwoodstours.comGiant redwoods pierce the sky in Muir Woods. Image: muirwoodstours.comA picturesque town with a relaxed atmosphere at the edge of the San Francisco Bay, this is an ideal stop to grab a bite after building up an appetite in Muir Woods. Also, if you need to get your gift shopping done or are just looking to spoil yourself, then the downtown area has loads of stores that cater for every need.Depending on the season you arrive in the city, catch either the San Francisco Giants baseball team at the AT&amp;T Park, or the San Jose Sharks ice-hockey team at the SAP Centre. Grab some nachos with cheese and salsa, settle in your seat and enjoy the ride. Share your travel experiences with us in 'Readers' World' and you could win R1,000Send your photos - at least 500KB - and a story of no more than 800 words. ALL winners receive R1,000. Only winning entrants will be contacted. E-mail travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za