Classic suiting takes a new turn with thigh-grazing oversized blazers, sans matching bottoms. Worn boxy or with a belted waist, the tailored jacket resembles a jacket dress and is best paired with attention-grabbing tights or thigh-high boots. Wardrobe staples are given new shapes with the deconstruction trend. Asymmetrical configurations, combinations of contrasting fabrics and unexpected seams are being used to reinvent the classics.Florals are blooming on the autumn runway, with bouquet covered dresses and embellishments reminiscent of spring. This season fabrics are transformed by cherry blossom and rose prints that transcend a feminine aesthetic and evoke a cool-girl edge.Discovered at Design Indaba: put these emerging creatives on your fashion radarIn a sea of autumnal, muted and dark tones, bright splashes of colour are having their moment. Candy red, citrus orange and rich mustard lift the mood this winter. Luxurious velvet is fashion's latest tactile obsession. Plush velvet suiting, slip dresses, ankle boots and handbags found pride of place on the ramp. A go-to for added volume, texture and a hint of romance, the ruffle is having a moment. Seen everywhere from hemlines and sleeves to tiered skirts and covering overcoats, it's clear this trend is here to stay.Bold shoulders are still in the spotlight with asymmetrical shoulder dresses, statement cut outs and skilfully layered off-the-shoulder tops, making their mark on the runway. 4 trends from Milan Fashion Week we can't wait to wearClassic check patterns never go out of style. This season's simple check, hound's-tooth, herringbone and glen plaid checks come in muted tones. Add visual texture for an effortless take on the modish renegade. Designers are redefining silhouettes and adding drama with an array of exaggerated proportions. From oversized shoulders to giant sleeves and geometric hips, this is the sartorial statement of the season. Statement furs are the boldest accessory this season, with coats coming in multicolour and linear prints, and in every texture imaginable. The new fur is not for the sartorially faint-hearted. Army green and deep forest hues of moss and juniper are the most utilitarian colours for combating winter weather. For autumn 2017, this classic military shade is worn in clean line silhouettes and structured uniform staples.Wearing 'pyjamas' out & about is a legit fashion trendOversized chunky knits with bold animal motifs and graphic and painterly prints are key to transitional and winter weather layering. This season's favourite footwear is your new winter staple. The just-above-the ankle boot, complete with block heel, in materials from velvet to snakeskin offers practical all-day winter wear. The new 'it' bag is the smallest mini bag yet. The handbag turned accessory may not be practical for holding essentials, but it fits perfectly with any look. 