"Wayde eats meat like it's nobody's business. He makes himself chops for lunch, stuff like that."Anything with meat he'll eat. He loves his red meat. Lamb chops. As long as there are lamb chops, he'll be fine. He'll eat lamb chops any time of the day."Van Niekerk and Campbell, both 24, were born on the same day: July 15 1992."He says he's older. I think he was born first. He was early morning and I was late in the evening."So who says happy birthday first? "The one who wakes up first, I guess. It's me, because I wake up at 5am. I wake up before him."Since winning the Olympic 400m gold in world-record time last year, following his world title the year before, life hasn't been all champagne and roses for Van Niekerk and Campbell.For starters, the sprinter, who was beaten in the 100m by 18-year-old rising star Gift Leotlela in Bloemfontein this week, has not been able to train as he would have liked, with more demands on his time as well as a lingering back injury.</img>Wayde's fianc e says the sprinter loves meat and would eat it all day if he could. Image: Wayde Van NiekerkWayde's fianc e says the sprinter loves meat and would eat it all day if he could. Image: Wayde Van Niekerk"There's a lot of time that's being taken away from training and so on and you're not at home as much as you like to be. I think we need to be a bit strict now," Van Niekerk admitted after finishing second."I'm going to have to put my foot down now."Campbell said Van Niekerk's fame since his stunning victory at the Rio Games meant that going out with him in public could be challenging."Walking into a mall is not the same anymore, it takes longer," said Campbell, a sociology lecturer who is studying for a master's."So if you're planning on doing something you must just leave him at home."A lot more people recognise him now and a lot more people want photos, and Wayde, being the sweet guy he is, stops for everyone and smiles for everyone ... he's just chilled. He's just normal ol' Wayde," she said of the sprint sensation who drives a top-range sponsored sports car. He has also won a couple of others along the way as rewards for his running.Before and after his race on Wednesday night, he was mobbed by fans wanting autographs and selfies.The couple, who got engaged in December, have yet to finalise a wedding date, although it's unlikely to be at her favourite time of year."I love autumn and the thing with autumn is Wayde is always preparing to leave, so I will never get my autumn wedding," she said."We just have to sit and look when it actually suits him. We haven't really had a proper [look but] there's no rush. If it happens this year, if it happens next year, it's all good."What about the year after? "No," she replied. "Not the year after. But it has to be when he's not preparing to race, or busy racing."</img>Wayde's fianc e is always there to support him. Image: Wayde Van Niekerk Wayde's fianc e is always there to support him. Image: Wayde Van NiekerkOnce the European summer season starts, Van Niekerk and coach Ans Botha will make their annual trip to their training base in Gemona, Italy.Time with each other is rare for the love birds."The mornings we don't see each other much because then I leave for work andhe trains," said Campbell, who accompanies him to physiotherapy when she can."Sometimes during the day we'll see each other and then in the evening we see each other when he comes back from training."If it's true that the way to a man's heart is through his stomach, then Campbell knows the secret - those tempting lamb chops.Van Niekerk, who hopes to add the 200m to his racing schedule at the world championships in London in August, is confident he'll be in tip-top shape by then."There's still so much time we have," he said.There's still a lot of time left.