The brainchild of American world traveller, Scott Wood, this award-winning Japanese restaurant opened its doors eight years ago. With chef Koshi in the kitchen, it is now regarded as one of the best Asian restaurants in South Africa.The interior, designed by Scott himself, is sleek and minimal, and it s easy to see that Scott was heavily influenced by his travels throughout Asia. The simple decor oozes peace and tranquillity complete with a water feature and comes together to create a serene oasis in the middle of bustling Kloof.Do you like sushi? And doughnuts? Now you can eat them togetherThe new set menu for two is the perfect excuse for a date night. The six course meal for two highlights the best aspects of Kyoto Garden Sushi. As you sit down you re given a bowl of lightly salted edamame beans, but I suggest you only nibble on these to leave space for the six tantalising dishes that follow.First is the tuna tartare with a touch of soy sauce. This light but flavourful taster is the perfect start to the night. The seaweed salad with shitake mushrooms and seared salmon follows and tastes like it s fresh from the ocean. Of course, you can t go to Kyoto without sampling the sushi, which followed: the chef s creation of sushi, sashimi and California rolls of prawns, salmon, tuna and linefish.Up next was the vegetable tempura, which was moreish the only downside was that I had to share it with my partner. The fifth course, ramen noodles with prawns in a miso broth, was wholesome and strangely comforting something I can imagine being a staple for me in the winter months. And to end off the night, the delightful white sesame seed ice cream.As low-key eateries are concerned, Kyoto has a firm place in my heart and it is easy to see why it s one of the best Asian restaurants in South Africa. For a relaxed atmosphere and phenomenal food, be sure to visit. This was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.