Lions president Kevin de Klerk told the Sunday Times that they will only think of finding a replacement once Ackermann indicates he is leaving."We are waiting for finality. We have a bit of time," said De Klerk. "I assume that a decision is due fairly soon. Sooner rather than later."Gloucester this week were due to confirm French scaffolding billionaire Mohed Altrad as its biggest shareholder, but the English club were at pains to assure that won't affect the offer made to Ackermann. Stormers feel the heat, then apply the heatAltrad also owns French Top 14 side Montpellier.De Klerk, meanwhile, said that several coaches had expressed interest in joining the Lions since news of Gloucester's offer to Ackermann broke last week.He said: "I don't know how many exactly, but there has been some interest."The Lions' president does not begrudge the coach who they put their faith in four years ago. "We decided to give him a go and go with our own. It has paid off magnificently. That is what happens when you put faith and hope in someone."Obviously retaining him would be first prize, but you also have to consider his growth as a coach. What's the best way forward for his career development? We have to respect Ackers' decision, whatever he decides."The one reason the Lions don't have to initiate an exhaustive search for a new coach just yet is the reassuring knowledge that their coaching structures are sound. Ackermann helped create a template that should help facilitate a seamless transition should he decide to move.In assistant coach Swys de Bruin, the Lions have an established coach on the local firmament. He acted as perfect foil to Ackermann, in helping develop the finer nuances to the Lions' attacking play.The Lions should thus be able to absorb the shock of his departure and De Klerk concurs they have coaching structures that are sound. Still, replacing a coach of Ackermann's stature is a big ask."You don't just replace a coach like that," De Klerk said. "Ackers is a top man. The ethics he has helped instil here have taken this team forward. He has proved to be invaluable. The fellow coaches share those values and beliefs."We do have structures that work well. We also have experienced players who play some of their rugby in Japan that help provide guidance. We aren't inexperienced in that sense. We have players that have been through storms. In fact, we've been quite blessed."