Let's start by pointing out that the correct fashion term for this trend is ''mismatched" shoes, not odd ones. Wearing odd shoes implies that when you put those two, non-identical brogues on this morning it was an accident. The fashion statements made by the street-style set at Paris Fashion Week last month, and on Instagram right now, are entirely deliberate.It all started on the catwalk at Celine, in September, when the instigator of all things cool and off-kilter, British designer Phoebe Philo, sent models wearing odd boots - one black with one brown, one tan with one lemon - down her catwalk.Take note: these key fashion trends will be shaping the way you dress this winterIt was bold and subtle, the kind of considered styling trick that Philo's fans go wild for. And, like many of her recent fashion impacts (making trainers chic again, paint-brush prints, et al) it is one that is easy to copy en masse.Brooklyn Beckham has been giving it a go in his teenage high-tops and even White House press secretary Sean Spicer was spotted wearing one brown brogue and one black sandal last week (there might have been a medical reason, but he was spot on for trend .)Some of the style cognoscenti have nodded to it by simply switching their laces or ribbons, but others have gone the full Philo, wearing completely contrasting footwear. So is it really as daft as it sounds?"Yes, they do feel odd, but in a good way," says Erica Davies, a fashion editor and founder of style blog The Edited, who's been trying the trend since last summer. "I think anything can work, so long as it's tonal. Prints, patterns, colours; it all works together as long as the tones work."The easiest way to do it seems to be to buy two pairs of the same style in slightly different colours or fabrications (see Naomie Harris' opposing jewelled sandals - pictured below - at the Oscars last month, for example). No one is hobbling around with a stiletto on the left foot and a smoking slipper on the right."I think fashion should be fun, but I also don't want to look ridiculous," said Davies. "I love the fact that my mismatched sandals are all in the same colourway. I love wearing them with simple black or white, to make them the focus."Davies has over 43,000 followers on Instagram, some of whom reacted by stating that they were "too OCD" to try it for themselves, but most just wanted to know where she bought them. Her odd sandals are by Natalie Alamein, an Australian designer. Alamein loves to watch customers' reactions when they first see her mismatched pairs on display at her Bondi Beach flagship store. "I have had every reaction possible from customers, everyone has an opinion," she said. "There was a Russian model who thought I was lying and trying to sell her two different shoes, then there have been some who don't understand the concept and keep asking to buy the matching pair."Alamein describes the "thrill of wearing something that goes against the grain" as being the key motivator ofthe women who buy them, noting that they challenge our ideas about what is acceptable. - The Daily Telegraph