Describe your art in three words.Decorative contemporary botanicals.Did you always know you were going to be an artist?Yes! I've been drawing, painting and designing since I was a child; it's my passion and compulsion. Meet the maker: Amanda du Plessis of Evolution ProductWhy plants?I love everything about plants and flowers. They are perfectly beautiful in my opinion, and I have always been attracted to them. There is endless inspiration in their colours and forms and they are eternally and universally admired.They can be classic and modern and everything in between. I would love to be surrounded by flowers all the time. If I weren't an artist I'd be a florist.You're inspired by Chinoiserie, orchids, antique botanical masterpieces, blue and white china, and all things floral. How did you find yourself immersed in these old-world charms?It runs in my family. My grand-mother always had floral furniture, beautiful wallpaper and Willow Pattern plates. Her farmhouse in KwaZulu-Natal, where I grew up, was stylish and elegant.My mum and aunt exposed me to classical design as a child and it's what makes me tick. When I lived in London my route to work took me past the de Gournay showroom with its handpainted Chinoiserie wallpaper. This made my heart sing.My paintings are a combination of all the prettiest things I can think of, put together in a composition that is balanced, sophisticated, intricately detailed, bursting with colour and unashamedly gorgeous.What is your drawing process? And what mediums do you use?I start by gathering references for the different components of a new painting. I have a huge collection of relevant books, I spend a lot of time in flower shops and Pinterest and Google are fantastic tools. I draw the outline of a painting, including all the details, in pencil first and then start with the paint.I use watercolours on ultra-smooth and heavy, cream-coloured watercolour paper, and some very tiny brushes to get all the meticulous details on birds' feathers and veins on petals and leaves. A painting usually takes several weeks to complete.</img> Three-banded Courser with Cymbidium Orchid (original painting) by Kelly Higgs. Image: Supplied Three-banded Courser with Cymbidium Orchid (original painting) by Kelly Higgs. Image: SuppliedYour top three artists?Mia Tarney, Maria Sibylla Merian and Carolyne Roehm.Where is your favourite place to draw?In my studio at home, where I have all the things I need, including a beautiful, green view of my garden and the blue South African sky with its perfect light.Do you spend much time in nature?Not as much as I'd like, but I love being in gardens. My favourite in Joburg is the magnificent Beechwood Gardens in Dunkeld. I am also passionate about the African bush.Where can people buy your work?I sell everything directly myself. While I'm based in Johannesburg, I can ship anywhere. People can contact me on higgskelly@hotmail.com.