PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)You may not be financially driven, but your instincts are superb. So if there are financial obligations, they'll be met this week. Don't fret if the occasional detour sneaks in to distract you. Some of the planets are taking routes of their own. But they'll get there in the end, and you won't really care how it was done. And love? Who cares about that? Not you. Not this week.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Love and money are hot on your trail and not necessarily in that order. Even so, the process is confusing, so keep your mind wide open and your diary at the ready. There are strange happenings this week, just the kind you like once you get over the uncertainty. It's a happy week, with Tuesday's new moon throwing in an extra spark. Start every day with gratitude. And expect a miracle.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)So there's a lack of direction. No problem. Don't go anywhere. Just because your confidence has taken a knock, doesn't mean your abilities are any different. You're simply failing to appreciate your own magic. Make this week about you. Take care of yourself as well as you take care of anyone else. And pay no attention to anyone with an opinion. Take it slowly. And go with your gut.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)You're probably driving everyone crazy with your mad ideas, but they seem to be working. Relationships are a bit strained, but if you keep developing your relationship with yourself - something you actually can control - you'll see changes there too. For now, success and money are your focus and your goal. Make sure you're multi-tasking at all times, or you'll lose interest.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Take better care of your fragile little self. If your body needs a rest, give it one. Machines break down if they're never maintained. The changes you've made at work are finally showing results. Tuesday's new moon shifts your focus as you discover that you're worth every bit as much as anyone else. Don't waste your time on the dramas at home. They'll sort themselves out in their own time.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)If money's going well, make it better. If not, you haven't been paying attention. Money is moving rapidly towards you. Grab some before it gets away. If the career is looking off, use that irresistible charm. No blaming. You're a problem solver, not a complainer. Your planets are moving as required. Love is fabulous, possibly even linked to international destinations. Health is glowing.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Home and passion hold your attention as you consciously make more time for the gentler side of life. Career and money are taking journeys of their own, and won't be back until Wednesday or Thursday when a fascinating opportunity puts you back in charge. Watch your health. You don't want to be flat on your back when the goodies start arriving. Ask for help when trying to save the world.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)The planets zooming in on your career and social plans. You couldn't be happier. How about a networking party? That way, you can stay in touch with your favourite people while improving your image at work. Make some interesting proposals. There's pressure on you to be brilliant. Don't shrink from such a fabulous opportunity. Fear of failure is never a valid reason to avoid success.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)How can anyone stand up in public and swear to do something for the rest of their lives? In fact, how can anyone promise to do anything for longer than it takes to tear up a contract? It's a good point; one that's causing you to ponder your commitments. Which means it's the perfect time to figure out what you really want. One day at a time. Don't be afraid to change your mind. Everyone does.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Bored and ignored; directionless and vague; irritable and confused. That's you. Stop fighting the tide and spend some time chilling out. What's wrong with a little pleasure served up with some tingling romance? No one said you had to be ambitious all the time. One thing: That information you're nurturing must be handled with care. So watch your mouth. A new view of your world is coming.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)Get a decent therapist. You're so busy being strong for everyone else, you've forgotten how to take care of yourself. Sure, pay someone to do it. You'll feel better that way. Where is it written that you have to carry the load for everyone else? Don't you think it would be lighter if you spread it around? Do you honestly think there's no one out there willing to help. Just ask.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)No need to hunt for love this week. It's looking for you. Tell yourself you trust yourself to bring whatever's needed into your life. Then get out of your own way, and go about your business. Tuesday's new moon sends the perfect opportunity to expand your skills, even if you have to pay. Remember, money is an energy. It needs to flow to stay alive. And there's always more coming.