The 10 winners across various Open categories such as travel, culture, wildlife and nature were selected from a pool of 105,000 submissions.They will be exhibited at Somerset House in London between April 7 to May 7 as part of a special exhibit which includes rarely seen work by British photographer Martin Parr, winner of the 2017 Sony World Photography Awards Outstanding Contribution to Photography prize. 15 incredible wildlife photos that'll make your jaw dropPhotographer: Camilo Diaz, ColombiaAward: 1st Place, Open Motion CategoryAbout the shot (pictured above): "Everyday aims towards a collective goal. The Colombian national team is immersed in white, grey, and black, fighting together for the ultimate position. With accredited prestige, an invitation was sent to participate in the European Junior Championship, as a guest team. Ana Maria and her team are constantly fighting, pushing their lungs to the limit and transforming their everyday lack of resources to an idea of opportunity. The volume of water suggests a calm while the surface gives constant chaos. It is in this scenario that the South American team is named youth world champion winners in Norway."Photographer: Tim Cornbill, United KingdomAward: 1st Place, Open Architecture CategoryAbout the shot: "Having just arrived in Berlin on a bright summer's day, my wife and I decided to take a morning walk along the River Spree. We soon came across a large concrete building, and I was immediately struck by its geometry and scale. Across the river, I positioned myself for a single point perspective and waited for the right moment to capture it. A couple came into the viewfinder and I noticed the cyclist out of the corner of my eye. I waited for them to move into the frame and hit the shutter to try and balance the composition." Photographer: Jianguo Gong, ChinaAward: 1st Place, Open Culture CategoryAbout the shot: December 10, 2016. Wuhan city in Hubei Province, the Yangtze River, more than 1 thousand and 300 people practicing taijiquan. Photographer: Lise Johansson, DenmarkAward: 1st Place, Open Enhanced CategoryAbout the shot: "The series Hearth explores what it means to feel at home. The inspiration for the work came from the personal experience of returning to Denmark after many years of living abroad and realizing that I had lost the warm sense of belonging I once had. For this project, I've photographed architectural models of classic functionalist buildings, early representations of what would later become archetypes of the Danish home. Placing doll-like people in the models, distant and without any connection to their surroundings, Hearth seeks to apprehend the concept of home in its absence." Photographer: Alexander Vinogradov, Russian FederationAward: 1st Place, Open Portraits CategoryAbout the shot: "My art work is a portrait of a young girl called Nastya, who modeled for me in Moscow studio at summer 2016 after I got inspired by a famous French movie "Leon" with a cast of Natalie Portman and Jean Reno. This is the reason why my portrait is called: "Mathilda", which was photographed as a cosplay of Portman's role in this movie." Photographer: Hiroshi Tanita, JapanAward: 1st Place, Open Nature CategoryAbout the shot: The boundary line between blue and white, ice and snow which appeared in the pond to which thin ice came into winter. Photographer: Sergey Dibtsev, Russian FederationAward: 1st Place, Open Still Life CategoryAbout the shot: It isn't necessary to have money to travel by sea; just use your imagination! Fabric and paper are all you need. Photographer: Constantinos Sofikitis, GreeceAward: 1st Place, Open Street Photography Category"NYC Village Halloween Parade 2016, the spookiest time of the year. The parade began at 7pm and took place along 6th Avenue. Participants were invited to gather half an hour before the start of the parade ... The theme of this year's parade was 'Reverie'. According to the organizers of the parade: 'Most people believe that Halloween is an opportunity to let your imagination free. The truth however, is that the Halloween is more for awareness of ourselves.' 'Halloween protagonists' depicts the atmosphere of the world's most unique parade through the Joker's smile." Photographer: Ralph Gr f, GermanyAward: 1st Place, Open Travel CategoryAbout the shot: "The photo was taken at Roy's gas station and motel in Amboy, California. This almost abandoned village is located at the Historic Route 66, far away from any other service station and major road. The photo is part of an exhibition project on roadside attractions in the southwestern USA. With my color processing I have tried to capture the enormous August heat and atmosphere in Southern California." Photographer: Alessandra Meniconzi, SwitzerlandAward: 1st Place, Open Wildlife CategoryAbout the shot: "I am not a wildlife photographer but when I saw for first time the flamingos on the shallow waters of Walvis Bay I really got crazy! Walvis Bay lagoon is synonymous with flamingos and their beauty and elegance give me a lot of inspiration. There is no limit for my imagination: I watched them from early morning till the end of the day. Shores of the Namibian Coast, Walvis Bay (Summer 2016)." 