US President Donald Trump is in so much trouble that serious people think he may not make the full four years of his term.Congress is building a series of investigations into Russian influence in the 2016 election campaign against Hillary Clinton and, in the past few days, the angle of attack has become even sharper: the possibility that the Trump campaign actually colluded with the Russians on the timing of leaks to weaken Clinton.Trump has also run into early difficulties replacing Obamacare, the programme that pulled millions of Americans into health insurance, as Republican senators and congressmen facing midterm elections next year better appreciate the possible political consequences. Masses (in the NEC) are Zuma's best betMost telling has been the withdrawal of support by the Wall Street Journal, the voice of US capital and conservatism. Its problem is that he tweets so many lies that it has become impossible to know when he might be telling the truth."If President Trump announces that North Korea launched a missile that landed within 100 miles of Hawaii, would most Americans believe him?" the newspaper editorialised this week."Would the rest of the world? We're not sure, which speaks to the damage that Mr Trump is doing to his presidency with his seemingly endless stream of exaggerations, evidence-free accusations, implausible denials and other falsehoods."At least in the US there are effective layers of checks and balances against a sitting president. Congress can block his nominations for judges and for his cabinet. It can investigate him, as it soon will, and impeach him.There isn't an appointment of any consequence in the US that its president can make without congressional approval.We in South Africa are not so lucky.The founding fathers of our democracy thought it would be just fine to place no fetters whatsoever on the powers of the president. Some say that's because they were talking about Nelson Mandela at the time. Not Jacob Zuma.But that's nonsense. The fact is that the mindset of African nationalists and Afrikaner nationalists, the dominant voices in the negotiations, were the same. Nationalism is always poisonous. JZ can act like PW once did.The result here is a mess and a man of almost insatiable greed running the country. Former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, in 2014, gave the most wonderful speech on the state of our politics.Here's a pr cis: "The manner in which public power is allocated within it is not always optimal for advancing our democratic project," Moseneke said. "In the next two decades we may have to revisit the dispersal of public power."He went on to describe how the powers of the national executive in the constitution display "a remarkable concentration of the president's powers of appointment".Unlike countries where the deputy president is a running mate, here he is appointed and summarily dismissed by the president. The president appoints cabinet ministers, their deputies and leaders of government business in parliament. Government media conferences are denting SA's dignityAfter consulting the Judicial Service Commission (in which his appointees have great power), he appoints the chief justice and deputy chief justice, and the president of the Supreme Court of Appeal and the court's deputy president.He appoints the national director of public prosecutions, the public protector, the auditor-general, members of the Human Rights Commission, the Commission for Gender Equality and the Electoral Commission, commissioners of the Public Service Commission, the heads of the defence force and the military command of the defence force, the heads of the police and the intelligence services, and members of the Financial and Fiscal Commission.He appoints the statistician-general, the governor and deputies at the Reserve Bank and the commissioner of the South African Revenue Service.And that's just a fraction of the people he appoints."The vast powers of the appointment of the national executive bring to the fore the debate whether the democratic project will be best served by a powerful central executive authority," Moseneke said. "This uncanny concentration of power is a matter which we may ignore but only at our peril."That's putting it mildly. And to think the old National Party gave all that to Jacob Zuma for free.If DA leader Mmusi Maimane is still standing in a month's time, I would make it part of my 2019 policy offering that the president's powers of appointment are subject to vastly more rigorous interrogation and approval.