Apparently Jennifer Aniston spends upwards of R1-million annually on looking as good as she does. It's breathtaking! Sheer lunacy! ''Imagine shelling out that amount on maintenance," we shouted at each other when we discovered this ridiculous state of affairs, while some of us (women over 45) were simultaneously thinking: ''I am so due a roots retouch. And a trim. Must book in for a leg wax, or shall I wait a week and get an upper lip at the same time? God, what about my nails ..."Makeup bag detox: how to tell when your beauty products are past their primeWe glanced through the list of things Aniston is said to do to keep herself in shiny Hollywood shape, while chuckling and thinking: ''Don't remind me of the cost of this stuff. I don't want to know."We may not be talking ultrasound facials and bosom lifts, but we civilians have our own issues with grooming. The list of beauty appointments and purchases is the midlife woman's dirty little secret.We don't even admit the extent of the problem to ourselves because the whole concept of maintenance has crept up on us, and we still refuse to believe that we're now grooming the way Joan Collins was circa 1980, only without the results.That's the thing about maintenance-creep. You trundle along happily, reaching for a Bic razor occasionally and slapping on some Oil of Olay when your skin gets flaky, and the next thing you know you're locked into the grooming cycle of a supermodel.You've got appointments booked every six weeks for roots retouching, and every five for waxing, and then there are the hair appointments and the exercise class and you are panic-buying line-reducing serum and brown-spot erasing cream and not because any of this is fun.This is - at this stage - a non-negotiable necessity: the difference between people wanting to talk to us/employ us/let their children hang out with our children ... and being consigned to the dustbin of life.And each year the list gets longer and the time frame tighter. Suddenly going to the hairdresser as often as you used to go to the mall. Pedicures, once a summer luxury, now need a strong-armed pro to get some leverage on your toenails and heel rind.And then there are the hair removal needs, which are certainly not tailing off. (You could try doing this yourself, at home, but once you've accidentally got wax caught in places you weren't intending to wax, you will never try it again.)All of this costs a fortune, and for natural non-groomers, who just happen to be falling apart, it's painful - like a teetotaller having to pay for everyone else's booze after dinner in a restaurant. You think, why am I getting sucked into this lark?But it's not easy to opt out of the midlife maintenance game. For a start, there are all the natural groomers who can't wait to try out another jaw-tightening facial, and they're driving up the grooming standard.It turns out that what we thought was a choice, an option you embraced if you were a toy dog and plastic surgery sort of person, is now a compulsory feature of modern life. At least when the wear and tear starts to show. - The Daily Telegraph This article was originally published in The Times.