You're a multi-disciplinary designer and work in everything from branding to product design. Where did the idea to make rugs come from?Last year I launched two products, my Ndebele Burglar Bars and plant stands called Apotments.Since then I have been moving my graphic design into a more 3D space. I enjoy graphic design as a flat medium for digital and print, but am crazy about craft and tangible items. Some people have a thing for shoes. I have a thing for rugs. Meet the maker: Jennifer Bradley of Damn Good LookingWhat are the signs of a well-made rug?A rug should pull a room together. It should be made of natural fibres like wool, jute, cotton, sisal, silk or hemp. Synthetic rugs can cause allergies if treated with the incorrect products. They are also not as sustainable as a natural fibre rug.Tell us about these rugs. They are produced in India. They are 100% wool and are hand tufted. I worked closely with the weavers in India and do my production through a company which upskills locals to become artisans. In this way, we give back to the immediate community and create a sustainable livelihood.Your rugs are inspired by city maps. Tell us more.Citymapmats came about as I often find myself thinking about the cities in which we live. They are filled with beautiful architectural sculptures, utilitarian pieces, and interesting buildings. The patterns woven into the rugs - which form road maps of the city areas - are inspired by facades of the city's buildings and windows.</img> Townsend's Citymapmats are inspired by the facades of a city's buildings and windows. Image: SuppliedTownsend's Citymapmats are inspired by the facades of a city's buildings and windows. Image: SuppliedIdeas for interesting ways to display a rug?Although the rugs are primarily for the floor, I have hung a few in preparing for an exhibition and I now feel that they look best on the wall. Like a furry artwork.Pattern seems to inform a lot of your work. Is this the case with your Ndebele Burglar Bars and Screens? Definitely. Initially, Ndebele Burglar Bars were introduced to preserve traditional cultures which were being neglected as people move into the city, as well as being utilitarian from a security point of view.I want the culture and heritage of these traditions to remain, regardless of where you live. These have since been developed into dividers or screens as there was a demand to include the bar patterning into homes which don't necessarily require security bars.</img> Townsend's Ndebele Burglar Bars proved to be so popular that she branched out into making Ndebele screens. Image: SuppliedTownsend's Ndebele Burglar Bars proved to be so popular that she branched out into making Ndebele screens. Image: SuppliedYou're not afraid of colour. Do you have a tip for using bold colour in the home?I am actually petrified of colour. Introducing colour into my work has only come about in the past two years. Black is still my safe space.A tip for bringing pattern into the home?Bringing pattern and colour into a home can be daunting. I don't do things in moderation, so I would advise on doing one statement wall, or one statement sofa - but make sure it is the biggest wall or sofa. Visit fabrica.co.za