In their late 60s, they aim to race the full 56km distance and have been doing speed training at the Sports Science Institute in Newlands to help them achieve this.The friends, whose fit appearance defies their age, are confident that discipline, scientific training and attitude are a winning formula.A lifetime of activity provides a base on which to build but for the Two Oceans this year Abrahamson and Brimble decided not to rely only on their fitness and usual training. They wanted to up their game and turned to the Sports Science Institute for coaching.Sorry! There's a slim chance you're not actually as fit as you thinkAbrahamson, 67, said: "I have always used my own experience and intuition to set my course of training, variety and distances. This year has been exceptional in that Andrew Bosch from the institute kindly offered to give guidance, and this has helped to hone the training programme and maximise its benefits."Abrahamson said speed training, running faster than you would in the race, was important. It was also a psychological challenge."You approach [the speed training sessions] with some trepidation, knowing that the next must be better than the last. I have the satisfaction that my times are getting there," he said.To prepare for the speed sessions, the runners embarked on gym training to make their legs and core muscles stronger.As they have picked up the pace, they had to be aware of how their bodies were coping with the stress and manage it delicately.Brimble, 69, said: "You have to be strong and very disciplined, yet listen and look inwards to your body's responses. This is very personal as only you know your body as well as you do. Saying that, one has to go beyond your comfort zone and past experiences and embrace the new."The risk of getting injured or sick is real and avoiding this is a balancing act, said Abrahamson. "Fatigue is part of the training. I certainly feel it a lot."Brimble said that training partners, who can become lifelong friends, reinforced discipline when it came to getting up in the dark and cold. Also, running in beautiful environments and having a plan added motivation."Like so much in life, if you have a plan and clear focus, it is much more doable and uncomplicated."Brimble is naturally fast. He has run a standard marathon in two hours, 26 minutes and his son Ben is a sponsored trail runner, who has won races like the 80km PUFfer on the Cape Peninsula.For Abrahamson, the Two Oceans next month will be his 42nd, and in eight years' time he hopes to run his 50th.He told Sports Science Institute staff that when the going gets tough he repeats to himself a mantra that his late running mate Chet Sainsbury used, "Are you man or mouse?"Brimble's mantra is: "OK, just make this kilometre as perfect as you can."On Easter Saturday, when Abrahamson lines up at the start of the Two Oceans, his son Mark will be by his side."I'm thrilled that Mark is coming out from London to run his first Oceans ultra."We are both cautious about running together as his training in the winter of the UK has been limited, and mine has been intensive."On the other hand, he has relative youth and simply put, I don't, so we will start together and see how it goes."Novel exercises that'll shake up your tired gym routine1) As you age, more time is needed for recovery between hard sessions.2) Taking a protein supplement to aid recovery is recommended, but be aware that as you age more protein is needed than when younger. After age 50 or so, the requirement increases from 20g to approximately 30g post-training.3) Do strength training to offset age-related muscle strength loss.4) More time is needed to warm up and "feel good" in training. Be prepared to run the first few kilometres at a much slower pace.5) Appreciate the fact that at some point your times will start getting slower compared to when you were younger; accept this as inevitable and be cognisant of the fact that 10 years on, these slower times will appear very fast. Source: Professor Andrew Bosch, UCT Division of Exercise Science &amp; Sports Medicine &amp; Sports Science Institute of SA.