She was supposed to stay calm and stick with coach Lindsey Parry in the Om Die Dam 50km, but she dropped him early before retaining her crown in 3hr 29min 47sec.Comrades champion Charne Bosman was second in 3:34.42. Zimbabwean Colin Parura won the men's race in 2:53.54, nearly three minutes in front of Ludwick Mamabolo.Wostmann, winner of the past two Two Oceans, insists she has decided to surrender that title when she lines up for the scenic 56km around the peninsula next month, saying her focus is on Comrades. Cape marathon aims to put city on world map"That was a hard one, hey," admitted Wostmann, who rocketed to fame by winning the Two Oceans and Comrades double in 2015."I was really tempted, I actually asked Lindsey, 'do you think I can go for both?' and he said to me not this year, not when they're so close together. Make a choice."The race on Easter Saturday this year is 10 days later than it was in 2015 and 20 days later than last year, although Comrades Marathon on June 4 is a few days later than the previous two editions.She chose Comrades.In last year's race her legs cramped when she was in the lead some 10km from the finish, relegating her to second behind Bosman."That's the one I really want to do well in. The first year, when I won both, I think I was really lucky."Last year, it was 'well, there you go, you can't do it every year'," said the accounting lecturer at the University of Pretoria. You might think you're invincible, but you're not. It was a bit of a rude awakening for me "You might think you're invincible, but you're not. It was a bit of a rude awakening for me."Wostmann doesn't know for sure what went wrong, but she believes it might have been because she failed to take salt tablets as normal."I think I just got a little caught up in all the excitement happening beforehand so I didn't take any anti-cramp which, in hindsight, was a really stupid thing to do..."From my first [Comrades], the club runners said to me you must take salt tablets so you don't cramp and I've never cramped in any race. I don't regret it: Wostmann"I just didn't think of it. I don't know if it was that... you can't be sure," said Wostmann, who this week clocked her 1500th kilometre of training for the year, halfway to the 3000km she plans to clock for the Comrades.Wostmann is eyeing the 11-year-old women's 6hr 09min 23sec up-run record held by Elena Nurgalieva of Russia."I'm always eyeing the Comrades record," said Wostmann, who was on pace for the up record two years ago, when the course was 800m longer because of a roadworks detour through Pinetown.This year the course is 86.73km, nearly 1km shorter than 2015."All I have to do is try and repeat what happened in 2015. It sounds so easy, I'm not sure that it will be," laughed the mother of two, who took up running to lose baby weight.Wostmann, who last year became the first woman to hold the Two Oceans, Comrades and Om Die Dam titles simultaneously, joked she wanted Parry to run with her again at Two Oceans to temper her ambition. "I need supervising so I'm not naughty."Wostmann was adamant she had tempered herself in previous Om Die Dam races."Where I've held back and I haven't been in a position to win it, then I've been fine," said Wostmann."Obviously, if I'm coming third I get a little bit excited and start pushing."Just like yesterday.