The discovery, hailed by the country's antiquities ministry as one of the most important yet, was made near the ruins of Ramses II's temple in the ancient city of Heliopolis, located in the eastern part of modern-day Cairo."Last Tuesday they called me to announce the big discovery of a colossus of a king, most probably Ramses II, made out of quartzite," Antiquities Minister Khaled al-Anani said at the site of the statue's unveiling.The most powerful and celebrated ruler of ancient Egypt, the pharaoh also known as Ramses the Great was the third of the 19th dynasty of Egypt and ruled from 1279BC to 1213BC. Mosul church turned into IS religious police baseHe led several military expeditions and expanded the Egyptian empire to stretch from Syria in the east to Nubia in the south. His successors called him the "Great Ancestor"."We found the bust of the statue and the lower part of the head and now we removed the head and we found the crown and the right ear and a fragment of the right eye," Anani said.The joint Egyptian-German expedition also found the upper part of a life-sized limestone statue of Pharaoh Seti II, Ramses II's grandson, that is 80cm long.The sun temple in Heliopolis was founded by Ramses II, lending weight to the likelihood that the statue is of him. It was one of the largest temples in Egypt, almost double the size of Luxor's Karnak, but was destroyed in Greco-Roman times. Many of its obelisks were moved to Alexandria or to Europe and stones from the site were looted and used for building as Cairo developed.Experts will now attempt to extract the remaining pieces of both statues before restoring them. If the colossus is proved to depict Ramses II, it will be moved to the entrance of the Grand Egyptian Museum, set to open in 2018.The discovery was made in the working-class area of Matariya, among unfinished buildings and mud roads.Dietrich Raue, head of the expedition's German team, said ancient Egyptians believed Heliopolis was the place where the sun god lives, meaning it was off-limits for any royal residences."The sun god created the world in Heliopolis, in Matariya. That's what I always tell people when they ask if there is anything important here. According to the pharaonic belief, the world was created in Matariya," Raue said."That means everything had to be built here. Statues, temples, obelisks, everything. But ... the king never lived in Matariya, because the sun god was living here."