Before the mid-19th century, unless you were a member of the aristocracy or a rich merchant, you wore clothes in shades of brown. Then some busybody discovered synthetic dyes and everything changed. Colour flooded into clothes - colours that suited you or didn't suit you. Colours that gave you a healthy glow and colours that your mother repeatedly said gave you the look of an old dishcloth. Which is roughly where we are today - flailing around looking for the colour to bring out our colour and then deciding we should stick to grey. Or black. Yes, black. That's a good idea.COLOUR PSYCHOLOGYFashion journalists, myself included, are guilty of adding to the spectrum confusion. "Pink's back!" "Purple reigns!" "The new yellow!" But that is over now because after 42 years, I've been officially told which colours suit me and which don't.But does it even matter? And if so, to whom? I call Lynda Shaw, a psychologist, to ask. "It might seem superficial because it's clothes, but all of the things that lie behind clothes - your self-esteem, anxieties when you don't feel right, people's judgements of you - are a reality," she tells me. Especially, apparently, when it comes to work. "If you are going for a job interview or trying to close a sale or get some business, it's very important that people judge you favourably. And your clothes will make a difference."Wearing 'pyjamas' out & about is a legit fashion trendTHE POWER OF COLOURWe all know that appearance can be powerful - or powerfully misleading - and our reactions are subjective. Colour plays into this because it has a strong visual effect on your overall image."Colours change things about people," says Polly Holman, an associate lecturer specialising in personal fashion styling at the London College of Fashion. "Colours that really suit you work with your natural colour palette to make your skin look healthier, your features more defined and your eyes bigger."Her rule of thumb is that the darker the eyes, hair and skin, the stronger the colour you can wear. The lighter your natural colour pattern, the paler and closer to pastels you should go.CHROMOPHOBIA OR COLOUR SNOBBERY?I have come to realise that I have become a massive colour snob. I don't want to look like a TV presenter. I'm embarrassed about wearing bright colour, not because I'm scared of it, but because I've settled into a kind of uniform. Fashion journalists are always banging on about having a uniform: clothes that come in navy, black, grey, muted colours and neutrals.In an industry that is always judging, navy blue, black and grey are a safe refuge, even if they don't necessarily make your skin glow or your eyes twinkle.I'm not sure I buy the idea that wearing a certain colour will get me a job or a promotion or encourage someone to think I'm fascinating. But the notion of being a dreary snob in top-to-toe black doesn't appeal to me at all. I pull out a red sweater and decide to wear it to work the next day. OK, maybe it's red and navy, but let's take this one step at a time. - The Daily Telegraph This article was originally published in The Times.