But to justify its $250-million price tag (R3.2-billion) as the most expensive house yet to go on the market in the US, this 3530m mansion in Bel Air comes with countless toys.It seems nothing exceeds like excess, but - even in a growing trend of gigamansions - this piece of real estate has created a stir. Van Breda Australian family home on sale for R25-millionA helicopter sits perched on the roof, but there is no possibility of a joy ride. This is a "non-working" helicopter that is not allowed to actually land and take off; it's there purely for show.An oversized Leica camera sculpture dominates the living area. For a tycoon too weary to swim laps, a mobile propeller is there to transport the "swimmer" from one side of the pool to the other.Included in the price are a car collection worth $30-million and six-figure Roberto Cavalli table settings.Among the objets d'art scattered across the home's four floors are jewel-encrusted guitars, giant black-and-white photographs of Cher (don't ask), and an onyx stone sculpture of a Herm s Birkin bag.But there is a glaring omission: there are no books, just a life-sized photo of a bookshelf w ith biographies of rock stars and Hollywood icons.Despite publicity, no one has taken out their chequebooks. Any takers? Somebody? ... Anybody? </img>A wall of candy dispensers ensures the sweet tooth is always catered for. No, the house does not come with a dentist. Image: Bruce Makowsky/BAM Luxury DevelopmentA wall of candy dispensers ensures the sweet tooth is always catered for. No, the house does not come with a dentist. Image: Bruce Makowsky/BAM Luxury Development</img>The plush cinema comes with Herm s blankets. Even the mega-wealthy sometimes get cold feet. Image: Bruce Makowsky/BAM Luxury DevelopmentThe plush cinema comes with Herm s blankets. Even the mega-wealthy sometimes get cold feet. Image: Bruce Makowsky/BAM Luxury Development</img>This stainless-steel sculpture of a Leica camera - with leather accents - dominates the living area. Snap! Image: Bruce Makowsky/BAM Luxury DevelopmentThis stainless-steel sculpture of a Leica camera - with leather accents - dominates the living area. Snap! Image: Bruce Makowsky/BAM Luxury Development