Last year, struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada said: "The fight for nonracialism, equity and equality is not short-term work, but generational work. It requires united effort, and a lifetime of commitment."I recall those words this week as Kathrada recovers in hospital, reflecting on the commitment his generation displayed in challenging a racist and oppressive state.It is a similar commitment we require today to remove the vestiges of apartheid - institutional and attitudinal racism.Whites' secret fear - other whitesIt is with this in mind that the Anti-Racism Network South Africa marks Anti-Racism Week 2017, challenging South Africans to #TakeOnRacism.The network is a grouping of some 60 organisations, spearheaded by the Ahmed Kathrada and Nelson Mandela f oundations. It aims to organise all sectors of society into a united front against racism.Anti-Racism Week encourages individuals and organisations to do something within their own means and capacity to challenge racism.Schools, for example, could host assemblies against racism, while faith-based organisations could address issues of racism in their sermons. Businesses could host workplace discussions about racism, while sports teams could dedicate games to support the week.The idea is to create mass awareness - conveying the #TakeOnRacism message to all who live in South Africa. The week culminates on Tuesday, Human Rights Day.Incidents of racism over the past year should leave us deeply disturbed. The South African Human Rights Commission dealt with 505 complaints of racism - an 82% increase from the previous year.This may point to increased awareness on reporting racism, which is a positive factor. However, we should be asking: if 500 cases about racism were reported, what about the incidents that have not been reported?While some studies, such as that conducted by the Institute for Race Relations, indicate that racism may not be a big issue for South Africans, research conducted by others, such as the Institute for Justice and Reconciliation, indicate otherwise. The fight for nonracialism, equity and equality is not short-term work, but generational work. It requires united effort, and a lifetime of commitment The South African Reconciliation Barometer indicates that persistent socioeconomic inequalities continue to affect the progress made in building social cohesion and reconciliation.A very practical example the barometer provides is that 77% of white respondents, 56% of Indian respondents, 42% of African respondents and only 29% of coloured respondents feel that they have the education they need to achieve their goals.This is an indicator of how specific issues such as education are closely linked to racial identities and perpetuating inequality.Recently, the human rights commission listened to presentations from various organisations on racism and social media in South Africa. The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation's submission detailed a collation of race-related issues. Only 3% of South Africans see racism as a serious unresolved problemPenny Sparrow and the Pretoria Girls' High stories featured in the top 10 social media and online news stories of last year, indicating that these incidents - both closely linked to racial issues - remained a major talking point for South Africans.The foundation also noted a re-emergence of overt forms of racism, such as the use of derogatory language and incitement to violence. It also found a repetition of similar incidents - despite the furore over the Sparrow case.The foundation's view was that changing racial attitudes, tackling structural racism and levelling inequality are the long-term goals and must be factored into solutions.One solution is ongoing national debate and action against racism, for which Anti-Racism Week provides a platform.This Anti-Racism Week, we want people to share how they have challenged racism. This will allow us to pool knowledge and experience in tackling racism.In 2014, during a speech to the UN, Kathrada called for the equivalent of a "Greenpeace against racism".We should recommit to #TakeOnRacism with greater determination. It is the least we can do, so that our children will one day know that we were also a generation that cared. Hanekom is minister of tourism. He writes in his capacity as chairman of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation