1) Since becoming a mother my outer world has become smaller, while my inner landscape and heart space has expanded immeasurably. Many of the things and people I find inspiring are in and around my home and studio, where I spend most of my time.I get inspiration from Leonard Cohen's song 'Anthem' with regard to my inner journey as a mum and a woman. "Forget your perfect offering/There is a crack in everything/That's how the light gets in."2) My son Peter blows my mind daily. He has come into this world with such love and joy and he shares it. He is a total lover. I'm inspired by children's ability to live in the moment, find joy and wonder in all that surrounds them and not dwell on anger and fear. Trend forecaster Dion Chang on what inspires him3) Peter and I have been growing rocket. The sprouting process is magical. It surrounds us daily, we just need to open our eyes to the springing.4) When in nature, I love to stand in the middle of a circle and zone in. I have found beautiful bits and pieces that, had I not stopped to notice, I would probably have squished.5) I find many local artists inspiring. Some favourites are Cecile Ormerod, Daniella Mooney and Athi-Patra Ruga. Also my husband, photographer Hugo Bodenham (one of his works, below). He gets under the skin of things and pierce right to the heart of a subject. He has an honesty I find rare and inspiring.6) I have started painting and love exploring old-school methods of preparing paint, glazes and canvas using materials such as rabbit skin glue, bole and egg with a dash of vinegar as a paint medium. I am being guided through this inspiring process by Freya Lincoln. Her glorious mind is a repository overflowing with knowledge of such things.7) I am fortunate to have inspiring women in my life who are fearlessly forging paths of expression in different forms: They are artist and teacher Hannah Loewenthal; food creator Jesse James, and Sarah Kennan, creator of La Leona 100% Agave Spirit. It has been awesome to witness these women's journeys. Visit missibaba.com