The Sunday Times can reveal relations between the government and the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) broke down irreparably during a meeting at the Rio Olympics in August, less than a year after Durban had been awarded the Games, but one of the killer blows was the government's attempt to slash the Games budget by nearly half.In pulling the Games from Durban, the CGF said the host city had made "significant departures" from its original proposal - but the government has blamed the federation for "moving the goalposts" and increasing the budget unilaterally.'We were ready to host'Some R118-million was spent on the bid alone, with sources saying that large chunks of this went to consultants in preparing the bid documents and economic impact report. The rest went to travel and related expenses, as well as hosting delegates to assess the bid. Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula said: "It started, I think, exactly at the Olympic Games in Rio when they were insisting we must put pen to paper and basically agree on the signing [of the host city agreement ]. "By that time there was a change in government on our side in terms of the ministry of finance. The minister of sports doesn't sign financial guarantees; it is only the minister of finance. And Nene was changed when he was supposed to sign, and Pravin [Gordhan] had to come in. We had to brief him and he had to sign the financial agreement. The change delayed the signing."Nene was removed from office in December 2015, the same month that the first set of deadlines - which included a host city payment and the signing of key documents - expired. This was three months after Durban was awarded the rights to host the event.It was only in June last year that the National Treasury signed the financial guarantees, confirming this week that it only signed for R2.7-billion. But at a meeting just two months later, the relationship broke down completely.</img>Crucial deadlines missed over Nene axing; government rolled back proposed budget by billions Image: Sunday WorldCrucial deadlines missed over Nene axing; government rolled back proposed budget by billions Image: Sunday WorldMbalula said that at that meeting the CGF wanted the country to put up R8-billion, but he insists that the government never mentioned this amount. "It is not a secret that we got a feeling that these guys [the CGF] are moving. They moved because we would not agree on what they wanted of R8-billion operational costs. They said that from the bid processes there was a proposal that was made of R8-billion. We tried to check who made the proposal to them because that was not our bottom line as the South African government. Our bottom line was R6-billion."But documents given to the Sunday Times this week seem to back up the CGF's standpoint. The July 2015 Evaluation Commission report shows that the Games budget was 480-million (R9-billion at the time).A Durban 2022 document shows that R8.1-billion had been budgeted as early as July 2015, just two months prior to Durban winning the bid in September.A source close to Durban 2022 said the R8-billion figure, with the extra R2-billion guarantee to cover the shortfall, had been on the table since negotiations started after Durban had lodged its bid in March 2015. The source added that the extra money was a contingency and would not necessarily have been spent. If it was, it could have been covered by Games income. When the government presented its revised budget in October last year, it had cut R3.5-billion off the projected price tag, taking it down to R4.61-billion, with the government suggesting it take over Games functions, from building the athletes' village to providing meals. The biggest casualty was administration, having its R987-million budget cauterised by more than 60% to R392-million, while the Games' workforce budget had been reduced from R1.314-billion to R783-million. Proposed cuts included: The Commonwealth village to R115-million from R315-million; Information telecommunications by R151-million from R289-million; Advertising and promotions by R99-million from R269-million; and Transport by R94-million from R341-million. </img>Nhlanha Nene was removed from office in December 2015, the same month that the first set of deadlines expired. Image: Trevor Samson/ Business Day Nhlanha Nene was removed from office in December 2015, the same month that the first set of deadlines expired. Image: Trevor Samson/ Business Day Other cuts involved knocking R74-million, or 44%, off the opening ceremony budget of R167-million; and R58-million, or 45.8%, off the closing ceremony budget. The traditional baton relay had been slashed by R41-million to R57-million, and R5-million had been shaved off the original R35-million forecast for medal award ceremonies. Mbalula said : "We are not privy to the document you say shows an amount of R8-billion. Who is the author of this budget? What we are privy to is that our cabinet approved an amount of R4.32-billion to host the Games, inclusive of capital expenditure. We know that upon evaluation by the technical committee of the CGF that they found the budget inadequate to deliver the Games, a view we contend with ." Another issue was reportedly the formation of the local organising committee, with another document showing that the three tiers of government would have had sole say over the composition of the board.Mbalula denied this, sayingSouth African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) and CGF representatives would have been included. "You could not have expected government to make such an investment of R4.32-billion and not be represented on the board of the LOC and only leave Sascoc and CGF to run the board." Games debacle in numbers R118-million has been spent on the bid so far.17 months after Durban won the bid in September 2015, the decision was taken this month to pull out of hosting the games.7 months ago, at the Rio Olympics, Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula knew South Africa faced an uphill task to retain the games.R4.61-billion was the bottom line in the revised October 2016 budget for the games - less than promised.R2.7-billion was all the Treasury had signed for as a financial guarantee (plus 18% for cost escalations).R8-billion was reported to be the Commonwealth Games Federation's target figure for Durban to spend - and was reportedly the amount initially committed to.