Willard Katsande scored a rare goal to give Chiefs a 28th-minute lead. Thamsanqa Gabuza headed Pirates back into the game in the 69th minute.People complain endlessly that Soweto derbies can be dull. Perhaps it's better when the two teams come into the game in below-best not-so-efficient form.It seems to have a twofold effect. One, both sides are on the rebound and desperate for a win. Two, both are perhaps just not quite so proficient at cancelling each other out. It's Renard or Broos for BafanaDefeats for Pirates and Chiefs in their previous matches seemed to bring the best out of both in this game.Both sides' coaches could have done with the comfort and confidence that a derby win can bring. Pirates' Eric Tinkler and Chiefs' Steve Komphela would also have not been displeased in settling for a draw.During the week both clubs' chairmen backed their men on the bench. For the especially under-pressure Tinkler, a draw might well have staved off the guillotine with Bucs having come into the game in 11th place. Komphela would have hoped for a win to get fourth-placed Amakhosi's chances of defending their league title back on track.Chiefs edged the first half. Pirates bossed the second, though Amakhosi did rally again after conceding an equaliser. Unlike in some previous derby draws though, this match was less ground out stalemate and far more a keen end-to-end contest.There was certainly barely a moment that caused the near-capacity crowd to go into a lull.Pirates won 3-1 in the corresponding first round league encounter. Chiefs bounced back with a penalties victory, after a goalless 120 minutes, in the following week's Telkom Knockout semifinal.Tinkler made one change from Bucs' 1-0 defeat against Jomo Cosmos in Potchefstroom last weekend, Edwin Gyimah replacing Tshepo Gumede at centre-back. With star striker Kermit Erasmus transferring on Thursday to French Ligue 1 club Rennes, Lehlohonolo Majoro started again up front.For Chiefs, Komphela brought Itumeleng Khune into his goal ahead of Reyaad Pieterse. Katsande was back ahead of Lucky Baloyi from a cautionary rest in Sunday's 2-1 defeat against Platinum Stars in Cape Town.Just before the 20-minute mark Reneilwe Letsholonyane had the ball in the net but was narrowly offside.After a cautious start a period of to-and-fro football ensued that the fans who make the pilgrimage to SA football's cathedral like to see. Pirates were pushing hard to equalise early in the half. Thandani Ntshumayelo's stinging shot from range was well pushed over the bar by Khune Chiefs played Siphiwe Tshabalala down the left, and Amakhosi's winger put in a perfect cross for Camaldine Abraw to head wide.The ball was worked straight downfield by Pirates and Thamsanqa Gabuza's chip was cleared by Siboniso Gaxa in front of Majoro's attempted bicycle kick.Then Bucs had a goal disallowed, referee Phillip Tinyani booking Thabo Qalinge for taking a free kick before the official was ready.Bucs appeared unfortunate - Tinyani had taken a few steps backwards, seeming to indicate his preparedness.Chiefs took the lead when. Tshabalala's corner from the right was finely curled, and Mulomowandau Mathoho's header fell at the feet of Willard Katsanda at the far post. With marker Thabo Rakhale standing off, Katsande could control onto his right foot and finish between Brighton Mhlongo's legs. The midfielder ran to Komphela to celebrate.Gabuza's glanced header wide from Rooi Mahamutsa's long throw had the latter goose-stepping across the pitch in frustration. 19-year old striker has the qualities to take him to the topMajoro tested Khune with a low, hard shot from the edge of the area just after the break.Pirates were pushing hard to equalise early in the half. Thandani Ntshumayelo's stinging shot from range was well pushed over the bar by Khune.From Qalinge's corner Issa Sarr's header was cleared by a defender.From the rebound Mathoho's deflection of Ayanda Gcaba's header forced another stop from the Chiefs keeper.But Pirates' pressure and persistence did see Khune beaten, then stretchered off, though the immediate feedback was it was from a lower calf cramp, not an injury.From Ayanda Gcaba's long throw form the left, this time Gabuza's near-post glance was on target, and would have gone in at the far upright even if Khune had not been wrong-footed, then fallen to the ground clutching a leg muscle.Pieterse came on in place of the Bafana Bafana No1.Chiefs rallied after allowing Bucs back in, but on balance of play a draw would have been considered a fair result in both camps.sports@timesmedia.co.zaSCORES