Two days later, doctors in her native Scotland told her the retina in her only functional eye had detached. It could have happened at any time, they said; it was just bad luck that it happened during Brands' dream holiday with boyfriend Nigel Carter."I was confused and terrified. It was like a shutter coming down one side with a mist covering the rest of the eye," Brands told the Sunday Times this week from the couple's home near Aberdeen.Said Carter: "Andi climbed effectively blind. We were both in bits at the top afterwards." No flashing at these unplugged weddingsThe incident preyed on the couple's mind, and when Brands recovered limited tunnel vision in her left eye and the time came to plan their wedding, they decided to slay the demon.Mountain guide Cameron Smith, who led their ill-fated climb in March 2015, was roped in, and after dressing in their wedding outfits - pink suit for him, pink hotpants and a garter under a traditional wedding dress for her - Brands and Carter repeated the climb last month before exchanging vows and rings on top of the mountain."It meant the world to me to go back. It felt like the end of a bad chapter but the beginning of a new one," said Brands.Carter added: "We ended up crying again, but in a different way. When we climbed through the window into the cable-car station, we were elated."Fourteen friends and family were there to shower the couple with confetti and mark not only the finish of a climb but the end of a long road to partial recovery for Brands, who has a rare eye disease. The 48-year-old has picked up the reins of the active lifestyle she and Carter have always enjoyed when not busy with their ice-cream business.Carter, 47, said Brands' calamity had left him "terrified" of any outdoor activity. "Andi was going through her white stick training and was adapting brilliantly, but I went into a mild depression," he said. "I made lots of lousy excuses not to do anything, but about nine months ago we decided to get back onto the horse and start living again. That's when we decided to get married on Table Mountain and finish the circle on a positive."</img>Andi Brands and Nigel Carter tie the knot in a sky-high ceremony. Image: SOPHIE SMITH PHOTOGRAPHYAndi Brands and Nigel Carter tie the knot in a sky-high ceremony. Image: SOPHIE SMITH PHOTOGRAPHY