Mirabile dictu! Not only has the number of children in the UK studying Latin doubled since 2000, but now their parents have joined them - the classics department at Colfe's School, southeast London, started offering lessons to parents, and they leapt at the chance. The classes were so oversubscribed that the school now gives two Monday-night Latin sessions for parents.It doesn't surprise me. I help to run a Latin club at a bookshop in London that attracts Latin fans from 17 to 70. The Godolphin and Latymer Ancient World Breakfast Club in west London meets every Friday to hear talks from classics experts. As that great classicist Boris Johnson - former mayor of London and now foreign minister - is fond of saying: "The only way forwards is backwards! Learn Latin!" Where did the phrase 'crying over spilt milk' originate?But why should you want to learn a dead language? Well, it's a really "crunchy" language - one that crunches the cogs of the mind and gives the brain a thorough workout.People say Latin is similar to English. It's true that two-thirds of English words are derived from Latin or Greek; and there's another reason to learn Latin - to work out all those derivations. In fact, Latin is very different from English in its structure, with the verb coming at the end of the sentence, and all sorts of expressions you won't find in our language.It's in those differences in language, translating from one to the other, that you start to crunch those cogs. And, in thinking about the construction of something outlandish like the gerundive, you start to think about the structure of language itself.The real reason for learning Latin, though, is to understand the roots of Western civilisation, which is built on two central struts: the classical and Judeo-Christian worlds. Learn Latin - and, ideally, Greek - and you begin to grasp not just the classical world but also the Judeo-Christian one.The New Testament was written in Greek, and Christ was born into a Roman world. Learn Latin, and you begin to understand the origins of architecture, philosophy, history, medicine, tragedy, comedy, politics and botany - just for starters.The Romans themselves admitted they borrowed most of their ideas from the Greeks. The Roman rhetorician Quintilian said, "Satura quidem tota nostra est," ("At least satire is totally ours"), acknowledging that practically all the other literary forms were created by the Greeks. But still, in learning Latin, you are encompassing much of the Greek civilisation that preceded it. Grammar Nazis must accept that words do not remain the sameThe Greeks were a supremely brilliant lot, but Athens and the surrounding land of Attica were barely bigger than Gloucestershire; and the golden years of Athens lasted little more than a century.The Roman Empire stretched from Hadrian's Wall to north Africa; from the Atlantic to the Middle East, and its best years lasted for nearly half a millennium; even longer if you include the Byzantine Empire. Learn Latin, and you learn how, in AN Wilson's phrase, "This became that"; how the ancient this became the modern that.For 40 years, from the '60s, Latin and Greek were disastrously marginalised in the British curriculum, for being supposedly elitist. How could knowing the language and history of Europe's most crucial civilisations be considered elitist?The parents studying at Colfe's School have realised what claptrap that sort of dumbed-down thinking is. And they have also discovered a universal human truth, as described by Philip Larkin, that, "Someone will forever be surprising a hunger in himself to be more serious." - The Daily Telegraph, London