Ford South Africa promised it would help ease customers' inconvenience by arranging and paying for rental cars while thousands of recalled 1.6-litre Kuga models were undergoing repairs. But irate customers said this week that car rental companies had been harassing them over unpaid bills.Free State resident Themba Dladla said the R30,862.10 bill he got from Europcar last week was a shock."I have had endless problems with my Kuga. The car caught fire after I was told the repairs were fine. Then I get this bill."He said Europcar contacted him in January, saying it had been instructed by Ford to provide him with a rental vehicle. "Now this has happened. Where do I suddenly find R30,000? Ford really needs to come to the party and explain just what on earth is going on."Ford takes big hit again as it recalls another Kuga model It's a demand that furious Gauteng resident AngeliQue Full also makes. She said Avis had threatened to report her to the police for vehicle theft and had secured the services of a debt collector to get the money she owes on her rental."I was shocked. From day one since this recall was announced it has been a nightmare. When Avis phoned me they told me I had an e-toll bill and rental bill to settle. They said the rental was in my name [so] I had to settle and they were not interested in the Ford agreement."She had taken the car back and been given a car by her dealership.Durbanite Desmond Iyer said he had received a bill for R2,250. "I had to pay a deposit of R750 [for the hire car], which was never refunded. I got my Kuga back, but returned it to Ford when an engine malfunction warning light came on."Iyer had to send his Kuga back to Ford twice more. "Every time I did I was given another rental car ... I had to foot the bill for the rentals which Ford has made no effort to refund me on. It's pathetic."Ford spokeswoman Rella Bernardes said Kuga customers in approved courtesy vehicles were not liable for charges. "We ask any customers who have been incorrectly billed to urgently contact Ford customer service."Ford South Africa announced this week that owners of 2-litre diesel Kugas should also bring their vehicles in over a brake problem.The National Consumer Commission is investigating the company.