Born on London's council estates after the Y2K dust had settled, Grime is the illegitimate love child of the house, dancehall, garage hip-hop and African sounds that had been seeping through the "townships" of England's capital city.Since then the genre has grown from an underground sound reserved only for those in the know into a chart-topping mainstream wunderkind and if you're not already, you should be listening to it for these reasons:AUTHENTICITY:Grime is in a similar space to where hip-hop was in the early to mid 1990s. The mainstream has finally noticed it but has not quite managed to infiltrate it. This has allowed it to remain true to its roots as a grubby, visceral expression of London's street culture. Unlike much of hip-hop, tales of Basquiats and Bentleys are few and far between because its ambassadors are still connected to the streets they came from. And because mainstream culture has still not acclimatised to the presence of Grime, the genre still has the kind of chip on its shoulders that produces gems.Hurricane warning as Stormzy's new album dominates the chartsSLANG:Being deeply moored in London's street culture, Grime's arrival on the mainstream scene has unearthed a treasure trove of slang that has seen even Drake borrowing it to score cool points. Whether discussing a "skeng" (a knife or a gun depending on who you talk to), or praising the "mandem" (your boys) the Jamaican patois-influenced slang that permeates the genre is a shot of adrenaline to the heart of an increasingly boring rap lingua franca. One of the beauties of hip-hop is that your mother had no idea what a "shawty" was. Now we have government ministers saying everything is "lit". Grime is helping us reclaim slang from an age group that should only be concerned with enunciation and fully formed sentences.DIVERSITY:Perhaps the best part of Grime is that it is difficult to pin down just where it ends and another genre begins. Artists like Stormzy and Giggs may lean closer to a traditional hip-hop sound but Wiley's latest album, Godfather, is far more electronically inclined. This means you are far less likely to end up in an unending cycle of similar beats. Because Grime has not been mainstream for all that long there is, as yet, no proven formula for success, so instead of trying to follow a certain path, Grime artists are doing their own thing and hoping that works out. How refreshing. A BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO GRIME MUSIC If you re planning to get a little grimy and don t know where to start, here are four artists to check out.Gang Signs and a Prayer debuted at No1 on the UK albums chart last week, with some calling it the first "pure grime" album to do so. Big Mike is the biggest name in the genre and is spearheading a wave of grime stars.WATCH the music video for Stormzy's track Big For Your Boots One of grime's founding fathers, Wiley's prolific output and ability to flit between making hardcore grime and crossover hits without selling out has made him a legend. His latest album is Godfather.WATCH the music video for Wiley's track Can't Go Wrong With a record that stretches back to grime's early days, Kano's raps have been staple since the early 2000s. His latest album, Made in the Manor, is his most successful to date.WATCH the music video for Kano's track T-shirt Weather in The Manor Armed with an ominous voice and a penchant for double entendres, Giggs is arguably the closest to traditional hip hop your grime is going to get, but he is still unmistakeably British. His latest album is Landlord.WATCH the music video for Gigg's track Whippin Excursion