How often do you travel?I travel nearly every other week. I'm on a plane around four or five times a month for work, and there are also vacations on top of that, so I'm always travelling somewhere. My head office is in Amsterdam, and so I'm there quite a bit, as well as in London and Paris.What's your best city for fashion?Tokyo. You see styles there you won't see in London, Paris, Milan or New York. I also like the fashion scene in Los Angeles it has a unique look.Why SA is one of superstar Laura Mvula's favourite places Where do you like to buy clothes?Eredi Chiarini in Florence and Russo Uomo in Capri are excellent for menswear.What's your favourite part of the US?I like LA, New York and Miami. I have a house in Miami, so I go there often. The boutiques at Bal Harbour Shops are great, and for vintage fashion I will head to North Miami. The P rez Art Museum has the most amazing collection of contemporary art.Earliest memory of travel abroad?As a teenager, I went to Florence, Italy, to visit my girlfriend, a student at the time.Most relaxing destination?I've had a home on Mustique, a small island in the West Indies, for many years, so I head there when I need downtime. I love just hanging out with no schedule.Favourite holiday destination?Every July, my family and I spend some time on a boat, touring the Mediterranean, visiting Corsica, Sardinia or Portofino. It is very relaxing and there is so much to see.Most adventurous journey?Last November, I went to the Kruger National Park in South Africa and stayed at the Royal Malewane Lodge. Seeing all the big game and being out in the bush was pretty amazing.</img>The designer's most adventurous holiday was at the Kruger National Park. Image: iStockThe designer's most adventurous holiday was at the Kruger National Park. Image: iStockAnd most remote?Back in the '80s, I went for a sailing holiday in the southern Philippines, around some islands untouched by civilisation. I've also been to fairly remote parts of Uganda with the Millennium Promise, a charity I was involved with between 2009 and 2012.Favourite city?When I am in London, I think London, but when I am in New York, I feel New York. It is very hard to choose between the two.Favourite hotel?The Capri Palace Hotel &amp; Spa. It is very luxurious, chic and laid-back.Favourite restaurant?Zuma in London is one of my favourites. I also love Harry's Bar in London. Club 55 in St Tropez is special.Favourite bar?The Claridge's Bar in London. Their afternoon tea is very good. </img>Hilfiger is often in London, with its famous Palace of Westminster and 'Big Ben'. Image: iStockHilfiger is often in London, with its famous Palace of Westminster and 'Big Ben'. Image: iStockFavourite city for nightlife?London. I like Loulou's. What do you need for a perfect holiday?To be active. I like skiing in Courchevel in the French Alps and Aspen in the US.Worst travel experience?Travelling in India. Back in the '70s, there were long delays and overcrowding on flights.Favourite airline?Emirates is my favourite commercial airline.And always pack a moonbag... Loyiso Gola's travel tipsBest travel advice?Dress as comfortably as possible and don't have expectations of everything going perfectly.Grooming tips for travelling?Moisturising is key.One travel essential?My iPad and phone. I like to stay in touch with my family and business colleagues.What do you hate about holidays?Coming back.Where next?Miami and then Mustique. I've never been to Australia or New Zealand and would like to. I'd certainly like to revisit India and Thailand.