Both entities are within the Mun-Ya-Wana Reserve in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Snowy Owl Properties and Mziki Shareblock Ltd, the residential development, are locked in a court battle over what time Mziki residents can go on game drives.The dispute has drawn in US billionaire Tara Getty, who is heavily invested in the area. Not even attempts by conservationist Dave Varty to mediate were successful. Top secret sanctuary for orphaned rhinosSnowy Owl Properties went to court in August last year attempting to bar Mziki residents from crossing its land between sunset and sunrise - a popular game-viewing time.In the High Court in Pietermaritzburg last month, Judge Esther Steyn ruled that in terms of an existing servitude agreement, the matter had to be referred to arbitration.Snowy Owl's attorney, Errol Goss, told the Sunday Times an application to appeal had been lodged.In court papers, Snowy Owl director Michael Kirkinis said that, in 2004, the company had bought two farms, then used for hunting.At the time all the farms in the area were fenced in, limiting the roaming of animals. But in the mid-1990s, all the neighbouring properties, including the Phinda Reserve, removed fences to form the greater Mun-Ya-Wana Reserve.This allowed the big five to roam across the area.Kirkinis said Mziki owners, who then had lions literally on their doorstep, enjoyed a steep increase in property values.He said Snowy Owl agreed to relax the strict enforcement of an agreement regarding traversing rights which stipulated that night-time game viewing could be done only with permission, accompanied by a game ranger and for a fee.However, this was only a "temporary privilege".Because of violations, including breaking the night-driving rule, driving off-road, using spotlights and posting pictures of sightings on a website which could tip off poachers, the privileges were revoked in 2012. Rhino king lays claim to land set aside for park Mziki owners retaliated, claiming it was their right to access the land whenever they wished. Varty was then bought in to mediate, but he failed. In his affidavit, Mziki chairman Norman Celliers said his father, Pieter, had helped establish the integrated reserve. There were always allowances for homeowners to have access across the area.He said Getty, a grandson of US oil billionaire J Paul Getty, was introduced to the area by Celliers snr. Getty became a shareholder in Mziki and bought his own game farm adjoining Phinda.Mziki, which was in the middle of the greater reserve, did not become a member of the nonprofit company established to run the reserve.Celliers said Mziki residents had concerns about the lifting of the fences because the big five would roam around their properties. A fee to access the reserve had also been proposed. He said members agreed to co-operate because a project to introduce black rhinos was at stake.But over time Snowy Owl began to treat shareblock members as "inferior", at times giving Getty exclusive game-viewing times. It tried to impose a R1,000-a-month levy on every shareholder.Celliers denied that Mziki residents had broken any rules.He said the court action was "an attempt to turn back the past. The effect is that the fences may have go up again."