Every craft that could float had been launched to escort the parade. It was a mast ball. There were yachts big and small, a steamboat driven by a man with a large moustache, kayaks, dinghies, lifeboats, even a cruise ship."There are so many boats on the water, you could walk across the bay," said a man on a tug.The English are polite, even in dense water traffic. Only one sailor had a rush of diesel fumes to the head."Get out of the bloody way!" he shouted at a child ahead of him. The child was rowing what appeared to be an oval bucket. How the jailbird got its stripesThe shouting man was on a huge yacht with a wicked pointed bit in front of it. A bowsprit, I was told.For a moment it felt like being on the highway back home in South Africa, where hefty saloons with flashing lights bear down on humble hatchbacks and muscle them out of the fast lane.No matter where you are, size counts. It counts on the road, it counts on the water and it counts on the page. (Paige Nick might tell you that it counts elsewhere too, but I'll leave that to her monthly column.) All species measure status in terms of size. The men with the biggest igloos, ideas and ice creams also tend to attract the most women.Just look at Nkandla.In Cornwall, the modest boats made way for the mighty vessels, which they had come to worship.Even Mr Shouty Bowsprit moved meekly aside for the tall ships with their many sails.In the same way, when we want to write something of import, we are always tempted to brush aside meagre little words and use big flashy ones instead. Long words seem to carry more weight.The big bias is all around us. Tall words have soared to great heights. Words such as "grand", "lofty" and "high" have all come to mean good as well as large.Words that mean short have not achieved the same success. "Stunted", "paltry", "petty" and "low" are not states to which one aspires.He who draws the short straw has to do the dirty work. To give someone short shrift is to rudely dismiss them. A short temper is not often listed as a desired trait on dating websites (where you also never find the phrase "short, dark and handsome"). A man with short arms and long pockets never pays his share of the bill. 'Mum's the word' has nothing to do with mothersIn short, the big, the tall, the long and the large always get more than their slice.Enough of this nonsense, I say. Show me a long word and I will find you a tiny one that can do as good a job in far less space. The boy in the bucket stayed just as dry as those on bigger boats, and had just as much fun. Let's give the little words their due.I say we declare a special day for short words. In the southern part of the world, it will have to be June 21, the shortest day of the year. Let us make this a day on which we use words such as happy, sleepy, sneezy, bashful, cat, sat and mat. Down with the long and up with the short.Author Edward de Bono once wrote a treatise in which he praised all manner of things that were not big. If he had really held this belief, he would have called the book Small is Great. Instead he used a longer word. By the way, have you noticed that this column contains no word of more than two syllables? Oh no, I just blew it. Sue de Groot is away this week. This column was first published in 2014.E-mail your observations on words and language to Sue de Groot on degroots@sundaytimes.co.za or follow her on Twitter: @deGrootS1