Already on the back foot, ill-discipline proved the self-inflicted body blow that took the game well out of the Reds' reach when wing Eto Nabuli saw yellow in the 45th minute and Quade Cooper red two minutes later.The visitors had already lost captain James Slipper to a serious injury in the first half so they were running thin of cool heads and clear thinkers.The cards, of course, killed the game as a contest but it is highly debatable whether the Reds had it within them to mount a serious challenge having gone into the break 15 points adrift. Deon Davids at the wheel of a rickety hearse Although their opponents were numerically challenged, the Lions' performance should not be undervalued.They needed to restore morale after their defeat to the Jaguares in Buenos Aires, Argentina, last week and they did so with aplomb securing a bonus point in the process.The Lions forwards were mostly on the back foot last week but yesterday they were very much in the ascendancy against a pack with more than a generous sprinkling of Wallabies.They predictably sped up play and commanded the width of the field as they sought to burn visiting lungs.They methodically and systematically dismantled the Reds and while the tourists showed endeavour when they had possession, they never really challenged the Lions.Having conceded 10 tries in their first three matches, the Lions would have been satisfied with their defensive effort yesterday. They did, however, concede two tries when the Reds operated with 14 players.However, it was in attack where the Lions were a different class. With so much possession at their disposal the backs feasted, none more so than Courtnall Skosan who helped himself to four tries, most scored as the Lions exploited the numerical advantage.Flyhalf Elton Jantjies and inside-centre Rohan Janse van Rensburg combined well in setting up the opening try for wing Skosan. A flat Jantjies pass meant Janse van Rensburg could bust through the gainline before a deft offload to his left put Skosan through. It set the pattern for the rest of the match.The Lions victory was, however, tempered with what appeared to be serious injuries to flank Ruan Ackermann and replacement hooker Johannes Jonker. SCORERSLions (44) - Tries: Courtnall Skosan (4), Jaco Kriel, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Malcolm Marx. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (2), Andries Coetzee. Penalty: Jantjies.Reds (14) - Tries: Duncan Paia'aua, Taniela Tupou. Conversions: James McIntyre (2).