Two yellow cards for flank Pablo Matera and outside-centre Matias Moroni in three minutes in the final quarter stunted the Jaguares' momentum at a time the Stormers were under the cosh.Matera pulled down a rolling maul close to the line and Moroni's deliberate knock-on gave referee Jaco Peyper no choice but to dish out another yellow. Lions leave 'Tahs bloodied and lostWhile that pair were off, the Stormers were awarded a penalty try for a collapsed scrum close to the Jaguares line and SP Marais also finished a move with numbers to spare to ensure an unconvincing win.After such a slick performance against the Bulls in week one, the hosts were unable to piece their game together in the face of excellent Jaguares defence.Lock Pieter-Steph du Toit again proved his worth with three important lineout steals while inside- centre Dan Kriel showed some good touches in his first Stormers start.The Stormers scrum was excellent for a second week running but the home team were inaccurate on attack for the most part and lacked the composure they showed last week. They made all the running in the first half and they earned some change in the face of the Jaguares' superb line speed by using chip kicks and grubbers' to turn the rushing defence.The tactic led to two well-taken tries - the first going to centre EW Viljoen, whose step up to this level has been seamless on the evidence of his two outings in Super Rugby. The second went to veteran scrumhalf Jano Vermaak after flyhalf Jean-Luc du Plessis put in a well-weighted chip, which Viljoen won back. Hooker Bongi Mbonambi did good work with the loose ball and slipped a pass to Vermaak, who sprinted 30m to the try-line.Despite territorial and scoreboard dominance, as well as more possession for the Stormers, the Jaguares clung on throughout the first half. Late, late try seals it for plucky SharksCaptain Agustin Creevy's try from a rolling maul was against the run of play but briefly gave the visitors the lead while flyhalf Nicolas Sanchez landed two first-half penalties to keep his side in touching distance.After the break, the Jaguares were the dominant team and placed the Stormers under increasing pressure through slick handling and offloading complementing their superb defence.Wing Santiago Cordero scored a try to narrow the deficit but the Jaguares once again proved their own worst enemies even though Cordero managed a second try with his side down to 13 men.SCORERSStormers 32 - Tries: EW Viljoen, Jano Vermaak, penalty try, SP Marais. Conversions: Jean-Luc du Plessis (2). Penalties: Du Plessis (2).Jaguares 25 - Tries: Agustin Creevy, Santiago Cordero (2). Conversions: Nicolas Sanchez,Santiago Gonzalo-Iglesias.. Penalties: Sanchez (2).