This is the central conceit of this art exhibition: as the marketing material has it, "that at 130 years old, the birth of this city is still in full-swing". Behind this installation are remnants of old mining equipment dug up during a construction project, including a rusted coco-pan for bringing up ore from below the ground and a section of railway line.You descend scaffolding stairs to the basement gallery where the rest of the exhibition is on display. The choreography of the entrance works well as a neat inversion: the history of the city is unearthed - above ground - and the present and the future are buried underground. The foundations of the city are forever being reborn. Art installation explores colonialism through the eyes of a white maleThe exhibition itself makes an attempt to weave together print-outs with potted histories of parts of Johannesburg and bits of urban theory with a more artistic representation of the city.One installation involves artist Kevin Krapf's attempt to represent his impression of the city as a newcomer. In one corner of the room you're invited to sit and read a fictional account of his arrival in Joburg while surrounded by paintings depicting some of the imagery in the written piece. On another wall are three letters to the city written by Nozuko Mapoma, extracted from The City, a book edited by Zahira Asmal.In the centre, suspended from the ceiling, is an architect's model by Urbanworks, an urban design and architecture company based in Maboneng, showing an early urban plan for the precinct. In another area is a display of boards with posters showing how key buildings in the precinct were reinvented, beginning with Arts on Main, sensitively stripped down and layered by Daffonchio &amp; Associates Architects, setting the tone for the architectural approach that would come to include Hallmark House a decade later, Propertuity's most recent and biggest project, a 1960s diamond- polishing factory reinvented as "Africa's most enviable address".</img>Remnants of old mining equipment at Unfinished City . Image: MOAD Remnants of old mining equipment at Unfinished City . Image: MOAD You can't help being impressed with the rapid growth from five repurposed warehouses that made Arts on Main into a mixed-use precinct with more than 70 buildings. The precinct, as architect David Adjaye says in his commentary on Hallmark House, reveals the application of "fresh thinking to urban community and to address changing lifestyles with a more fluid approach to the way we inhabit cities".Jonathan Liebmann, founder of Propertuity, the development company behind Maboneng, had the foresight to include accommodation in his plan, so the precinct had a resident population, rather than becoming purely an events-driven destination. The vision, chutzpah and determination behind Maboneng cannot be understated.But the exhibition also reveals some of the shortcomings of Maboneng's model of development. First of all, it seems to conflate the history of Johannesburg with the history of Maboneng. While it is valid that the general history of the city can be brought to bear on the reinvention of this part of the city, there seems to be slippage in the other direction: that Maboneng represents the city. While Johannesburg certainly benefits from Maboneng's particular brand of urban renewal, it seems wrong to wish to rebrand the whole of Joburg in the name of one precinct Maboneng's model of urban regeneration has involved a top-down rebranding of part of the city, which seems to want to envelop the whole city. While Johannesburg certainly benefits from Maboneng's particular brand of urban renewal, it seems wrong to wish to rebrand the whole of Joburg in the name of one precinct.Another area of the exhibition shows future plans for Maboneng. As Maboneng expands it will encounter more of Joburg and face the city's real complexity, which will be more difficult to brand. Undoubtedly both will benefit. Unfinished City is at the Museum of African Design in Commissioner Street, Johannesburg, until March 31. This article was originally published in The Times.