Tell us about Good Good GoodGood Good Good is a functional basics menswear brand for men of all sizes, manufactured in our family factory in Cape Town. While quality menswear basics are at the core of our brand philosophy, we've recently ventured into designing and manufacturing classic and technical menswear items made with experimental fabrics.The minimal aesthetic of our core basics range creates an excellent opportunity for collaborations on more artistic contemporary menswear capsules, like the ''Broken Hearts Club" T-Shirt collection, with Jana Hamman, or our soon to be released collection with South African artist David Brits, which were both showcased as part of our runway collection at SA Menswear Week.Fashion can never be one simple thing: SA designer Cleo DroomerWhy the name 'Broken Hearts Club'?It has a bitter-sweet, human feel to it. Everybody's had their heart broken at some point in their life. It also hints at the small personal victory associated with rising above the emotional lows brought about by a broken heart.Inspiration?We wanted to release a capsule of love-inspired T-Shirts for St Valentine's Day. Since our SA Menswear Week show fell on February 3, it seemed a perfect idea to use the runway as the platform on which to reveal a teaser of the capsule.Collaborating with Hamman?She's fantastic to work with. I'm familiar with her artistic style and inspiration, so I felt that she was the perfect person. She conceptualised and painted for hours the Sunday before our menswear-week show. Once the illustrations were down, it was a quick and seamless collaborative process - we worked together to decide how and where to place the drawings on the T-Shirts.Next up?We're busy working on the production of our SA Menswear Week collection, which consists of two parts: a stand alone Good Good Good collection and our collaborative capsule with South African artist David Brits. We have other collaborations lined up with a few local artists due later this year. The collection is available at the online shop goodgoodgood.co.za This article was originally published in The Times.