The two-week shutdown - due to blocked lines that are not designed to process oil - happened between December 6 and 18. This, according to sources at the plant, is the longest shutdown in the refinery's 25-year existence.A PetroSA employee, with insight and expertise in the gas-to-liquid field, said the plant had had an increase in breakdowns since the decision was made almost a year and a half ago.PetroSA bosses pocketed big bonuses but state-owned entity faces liability of R15 billion "We were down for two weeks because we have been running crude ... It's heavy condensate, while the plant is designed for gas," he said. "It's not the first time the plant has broken down because of this; it happens from time to time. But two weeks is the longest."At the heart of the organisation's problems is the failure of the multibillion-rand Ikhwezi project, a deep-sea natural gas exploration venture that yielded few results.Internal PetroSA documents show that limited supply of natural gas has resulted in drastic underutilisation of the plant and a sharp drop in revenues. A recent company status report revealed that the plant has been operating at a third of its capacity, requiring it to fill the gap by feeding oil."Gas imports can only be via liquid natural gas which requires infrastructure investment and takes approximately four years to develop and construct," said the report.The state-owned entity cried financial ruin over a month ago when it presented its corporate strategy to its board. It considered going under administration due to the financial constraints it faced and cutting jobs to ensure financial stability.The company results for the current financial year are expected to show that revenue has dropped by 41% since the last financial year, according to another internal report. "This is indicative of the extreme position PetroSA is operating under," it said.The report also revealed that strategic partners like Eskom and other creditors want increased deposits for goods supplied to PetroSA, as well as shortened payment terms.Two weeks ago PetroSA reported to parliament's portfolio committee on energy that it faced a further impairment of R1.1-billion this financial year after losses of R14.5-billion in the 2014-15 financial year because of Ikhwezi's failures.This week the Sunday Times learnt that the company would begin one of two processes geared to shed 750 of the refinery's 1,500 employees.This is part of the new strategy to abandon gas. Shambolic state oil firm PetroSA 'going broke' Three separate highly placed officials within PetroSA confirmed to the Sunday Times that in December the refinery had to be shut down because the entity decided over a year ago that it would run oil instead of gas through the refinery.The Sunday Times understands that the refinery generates revenue of about R1-billion a month. A shutdown of two weeks would mean a R500-million loss."I don't know with which wisdom the acting CEO made such a decision. When you make such a major decision you do a trial run, and there was no such [thing] in this case," a source said."Why do you want to use crude oil when there is Mozambique ... to supply gas?"PetroSA spokesman Thabo Mabaso confirmed that the refinery was shut down for two weeks but said this was due to Eskom power dips . He said the board and shareholders had agreed that alternative sources of gas supply would be used ."Key ... internal and external stakeholders were informed of the shutdown when the event occurred, to ensure there is mitigation to sustain market demand," he said. "For the last four years, plant utilisation has been reduced due to the low feedstock. The conversion to liquid feed has resulted in lower margins ... Initiatives to reduce fixed and variable costs have been adopted."But one employee said: "No one knows what we are going to do with all the oil that we bought and now can't pump through the refinery. It's a mess here."