Jazz purists lamented the death of the art form when Rashid Lombard, the longtime festival director and co-founder of espAfrika (the company behind the festival) passed the baton to his business partner, Billy Domingo. But then, lamentation is an affliction and the pastime of many purists.During his tenure, Lombard would move through the Cape Town International Convention Centre, where the festival is still hosted, as though he was making an attempt at breaking the land speed record. Or as though he was trying to score one more goal for the books, to spite the bookies.He was a late starter in the festival game. He had 28 years of photojournalism behind him. To counteract the traumatic scenes he witnessed in his work during apartheid and the violent transition to democracy, Lombard would find solace in listening to, and sometimes playing, jazz. He said: "At the end of 1994, when the late Mr Nelson Mandela was sworn in as the first democratically elected president of South Africa, my interest in being a photojournalist waned somewhat and I began looking at other opportunities." He found his entrepreneurial spirit in the lacuna which ensued.With some erstwhile colleagues, Lombard founded Fine Music Radio in 1995. For him, a move to P4 Radio (now Heart 104.9FM) soon followed. The cultural boycott, which had dissuaded discerning international acts from performing in South Africa during apartheid, had been lifted.For six years he photographed the North Sea Jazz Festival in Rotterdam, the Netherlands . It was during these excursions that he fashioned a vision for the type of festival he would one day create."I knew I wanted to [do] something big and something different," he said. "I approached the then director [of the North Sea Jazz Festival], Theo van den Hoek, and asked him to assist in staging a similar multistage festival in Cape Town." A four-year "learning" period began in 1999, in which time the festival was branded as a North Sea Jazz Festival in Cape Town.Festivals are risky affairs and success is rare. It would have been impossible if Lombard were to attempt it on his own. Realising this, he brought in Domingo, who came with decades of production experience and a knack for show business. Within their first five years as the duo at the helm of espAfrika, they relocated the Cape Town International Jazz Festival from the Good Hope Centre, where it was originally held, to the convention centre. They also slogged away at creating the internationally recognisable brand, the Cape Town International Jazz Festival - a separate entity to the North Sea Jazz Festival - and filled their company's trophy cabinet in the process.Yana, Lombard's daughter, helped make certain that the festival had a steady stream of fresh voices on the programme. Both Domingo and Lombard shared a passion for training and development, making that one of the festival's main focus areas. It remains so and includes partnerships with schools and music teachers, technical and production workshops, masterclasses, journalism training as well as opportunities for young bands to play at the festival.One of the major advantages this has had for the business is in developing a generation of support staff that would one day fill the ranks of the espAfrika team. Of the future leadership of espAfrika, Domingo said: "The succession plan for me, the next festival director will come out [of] our ranks because we're grooming, that's what it's about." What espAfrika and the festival now seem to achieve seamlessly at each event has been learnt through many years of trial and error. For Lombard, learning leadership skills presented a major hurdle. He said: "The biggest challenge ... was coming to grips with managing people, and doing so in such a way that growth could happen. That did not happen, though, with[out] having to learn the hard way about money, managing money, finding money, spending money - all things to do with money. That was tough and we came close at times to losing our business."Domingo's era as festival director and chief operating officer of espAfrika began in earnest with the 2014 festival, when Lombard hung up his boots for good and vowed never to try and build "something big" from scratch again. He said: "I decided to pass the baton on to others so that I could focus on matters close to my heart and say cheers to the intensity of producing the jazz festival, though still remaining a shareholder at espAfrika through the Rashid Lombard Family Trust." The family trust, along with all but one shareholder, hold a minority stake in espAfrika. In 2007, a deal was finalised for Sekunjalo Investment Holdings, owned by Iqbal Surv , to buy 51% of espAfrika's shares. This was at a time when the company desperately needed capital. According to Domingo, a condition of the sale was that Sekunjalo become the majority shareholder. EspAfrika later became the subsidiary of African Equity Empowerment Investments - one of Sekunjalo's investment entities. The festival's recognition, in a relatively short time, as one of Fest300's best festivals in the world and becoming a clear frontrunner on the continent, has surrounded it with a measure of mystique. But for Domingo, there is little mystery behind the festival's success. "You see, you have demonised it," he quipped. "You have made it so complicated. Show business is about logic. It's about that if I turn on the electricity, the mics are going to work. If I do this, that's going to work."But he added that the success has a measure of alchemy. "How you enhance all these elements to make [them] into this one entity, that's the magic." But in the end, to run a successful, sustainable and expanding promotion, he said he could not be beholden to those elements. "I have the final say only because I live and die by what I produce. So at the end of the day, if something goes wrong, I have to deal with that myself."Domingo's support as the festival's new striker now comes from AEEI CEO Khalid Abdulla, who is also acting espAfrika CEO.During his youth, Abdulla was a provincial and national soccer player tipped for a professional career in Europe - the dream of many young South African footballers today. But because of visa and work permit problems, as well as the unsustainability of a professional soccer career during apartheid, he studied accounting. His friends often say that he was born 20 years too early.His sporting background, however, has equipped Abdulla with strategic skills which he applies to, among other things, helping run and expand espAfrika. "It's taught me a whole lot of things about team play, how to captain teams, how to win," Abdulla said. "How to sometimes take the knocks on the chin, how to grow from where you are, learn from the lessons. I think it stood me in good stead."The interplay between Domingo and Abdulla stretches beyond the promoter (Domingo) being financially accountable to the suit (Abdulla). "He actually is a creative and incredible man who has the gift of knowing finance," Domingo said of his teammate. "He will phone you and say: 'Hey man, I just heard this in the car coming home. That was a great track, let's think about it.'"For more than a decade, espAfrika has been eyeing expansion north of South Africa's borders. This might be a reality soon; having established a financial base with the jazz festival, the company has created a secondary flagship event with the Royal Escape Experience at Sun City, where vocalist Lalah Hathaway performed last year. Abdulla said: "We've got a lot of alliances on the continent. We've already in the past developed and had jazz festivals in Angola, we've had [for] one or two years one in Mozambique and we're going to start developing more and more down the line. So we've got alliances and are talking and trying to build more."The Cape Town festival's 60% African and 40% international music programming mix this year can only serve this expansion prerogative positively. And AEEI's Vision 2020 strategy, which outlines the investment company's commitment to expansion in Africa, could well be a conduit for espAfrika's expansion plans. Or vice versa, perhaps.Buyouts, strategy, business principles and leadership only account for so much in the festival business. In the end, patrons are the ultimate referees. If the Cape Town festival, which begins on Friday, hopes to continue its dominance, it will have to make certain that the music programming and the increasingly important lifestyle element of this flagship event continue to resonate with veteran festivalgoers while also drawing new crowds.