Q. We are five females planning on visiting Israel in August. Could you recommend some cheap backpackers or hotels? We are on a serious budget. - Patricia JonesJuly and August are peak holiday season in Israel so it would be wise to plan and make bookings ahead, especially for hotels. It is a relatively cheap place for tourists to visit, but then it all depends on what you mean by "serious budget". Hotels will cost you roughly the same as hotels here. (See trivago.co.za, za.hotels.com, tripadvisor.com, travellerspoint.com and budgetplaces.com/israel).As there is no longer an official hotel star-rating system in Israel for more than 20 years, the stars in any advertising are self-awarded.There is also a host of cheaper options including independent hostels, some of which will offer private rooms at a higher rate, otherwise beds in dorms. Some have an age restriction, eg 18-40.Have a look at hostels.com/israel or hostelbookers.com for a selection, depending on where you plan to visit.The Florentine Backpackers Hostel in Elifelet Street, Tel Aviv, is very conveniently placed and will cost you from R340 for a private room or R188.87 in a dorm. Travel tips: What is Europe's most wheelchair-friendly city? The Jaffa Gate Hostel in the Old City of Jerusalem, in front of David's Tower, will cost you from R300.There are also official Israel Youth Hostel Association options across the country, often in remote areas. They have no age limit and you do not need to be a member, although being a member gets you cheaper rates and some discounts.You can also stay in Kibbutz Hotels, villages, vacation guesthouses or country lodges, which are of course unique to Israel and give you an insight into rural life and wonderful landscapes.There is accommodation by night but also week-long packages. Rates for Kibbutz Country Lodgings average $170 per night for a double room with a private bathroom.The Ministry of Tourism of Israel website lists hundreds of independent B&amp;Bs and "Zimmers" in rural villages, and ranging from simple to luxurious. Many of these hostels are in newer buildings with smaller rooms sleeping up to six, perfect for your group. See GoIsrael.com.Finally, there is always Airbnb, which is becoming increasingly popular. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za