The chimes had nothing to do with the local wildlife. Rather it was a group of visiting bell ringers from the United Kingdom who were pulling vigorously on the ropes. They d been on the move since January, ringing the changes in churches as far afield as New Zealand and Australia.Bell ringing is hot stuff in Britain. At least 40,000 UK citizens are campanologists the term for those involved in the art of bell ringing. In fact there is a pressure group of UK citizens who want the 400-year-old activity included as an Olympic sport.In South Africa there are no more than 40 bell ringing enthusiasts. Bear in mind, says Simon Milliken of the South African Guild of Church Bellringers, We only have nine towers where change ringing is possible, spread between Durban, Cape Town, Grahamstown and Johannesburg. Trains, tanks & teams of oxen are top attractions at this quirky Free State festivalMost churches may have bells but they are not all hung for the art of change ringing . For this you need bells attached to a wheel and hung so they turn in a complete circle.According to Milliken, it s addictive. Like birdwatchers who travel the world hoping to add to their life list, many campanologists love nothing more than to pull the ropes in as many churches in as many towns in as many countries as possible.This was reflected in the boundless enthusiasm of the 11 member group of visiting ringers. They had stopped off in Durban to ring the bells of the two towers on offer: St Paul s in the city centre and St Mary s in Greyville.And it s no walk in the park. Bell ringing is an activity like no other. It has been referred to as a mathematical team sport because it comprises a combination of permutations that have to be understood and then committed to memory.A ringing performance is called a peal, and has to contain over 5,000 changes. One change is the sequence of each bell being struck once. This means the performance usually lasts around three hours and it s all performed entirely from memory. That it is not only mentally good for you but also physically beneficial is music to any bell ringer s ears. The UK Churches Conservation Trust commissioned research to measure the body s response to bell ringing and found that it improved agility, co-ordination, reaction time and balance, plus muscle endurance and cardiovascular fitness .Alan Regin who co-ordinated the South African leg of the journey, began ringing bells in his hometown in Surrey at the age of ten. I was immediately hooked, he says. He compares bell ringing to riding a bike. You fall off a couple of times but once you can do it, you can do it. It s not particularly difficult. You need a good memory and a sense of rhythm but you don t need to be musical. This article was originally published in The Times.