The ghost of the title - derived from the Japanese manga comics by Masamune Shirow - is the human consciousness of the heroine.Played by a black-cropped Scarlett Johansson, she's physically a robot in all ways but the cerebral: the mind, and soul, of her old human form has been ported into a cyborg shell.Her job, as an asset of the Hanka Corporation which performed this fusion, is to weed out "terrorists" - the term synonymous with anyone considered hostile to the company, whether they have fair cause or not.Movie review: Action spectacles in 'John Wick: Chapter 2' lift it out of B-movie miserySometimes called "The Major", sometimes "Mira", she's an operative figuring out her place in a richly conceptualised dystopolis borrowing from all the cyberpunk fictions that have come before it. The main characters in Mamoru Oshii's 1995 animated film of this story weren't notably Japanese in appearance. Nor is Johansson.The unusual disconnect between Johansson's intelligence and her coolly dispassionate looks has been exploited before, most brilliantly in Jonathan Glazer's Under the Skin . Here she's both ghost and shell - a pair of soulful eyes, welling with memory and confusion, stranded inside a gorgeously supple action figure.Director Rupert Sanders uses bursts of action to suggest the rules of all this cyber-espionage: compared with the overkill of the Matrix pictures, his sequences are satisfyingly disciplined. A painted geisha-synthetic sprouts spider-legs in attack mode; masked assassins round on a major character with gunfire when he's coffined in his car. There are moments which recreate Oshii's best scenes, with real sets and actors performing a balletic kind of stunt-karaoke.For Johansson, this could be a franchise in the making, her own futuristic, post-human equivalent of a John Wick or Bourne. It needs the embrace of a willing audience first, but with trappings this glintingly cool and seductive, it's hard to see how the offer can be refused.Watch the trailer for Ghost in the Shell' A heavily computer-generated enterprise with more body than brains, more visuals than ideas, as if the original movie's hard drive had been wiped clean of all that was dark, poetic and mystifying. Jordan Mintzer, Hollywood Reporter Purely from a visual standpoint, 'Ghost in the Shell' is a thing of absolute beauty. James Mottram, South China Morning Post Though there's an enormous amount to look at and digest, little of this film is truly memorable or thought-provoking. Lisa Nesselson, Screen International This article was originally published in The Times.