The Frenchman, whose Bordeaux labels include Ch teau Destieux, Grand Cru Class de Saint-Emilion and Ch teau La Cl mence, was set to be cross-examined at an insolvency inquiry in the Bellville Magistrate's Court on Friday. But he did not turn up.Wine may get better with time, but Dauriac could soon learn the hard way that keeping the South African courts waiting is not a good idea. Magistrate Tanya Kloppers issued a warrant for his arrest and that of three other witnesses.Dauriac is being sued for more than R3-million by a French company, Rullier Agro Equipment, which supplied winemaking equipment to his South African firm, Cinmark Twelve, almost 10 years ago but has not been paid.Rullier obtained a judgment against Dauriac's company in the Bordeaux Commercial Court in 2009. It also obtained a court order in the High Court in Cape Town to enforce the French court's order. Infamous winelands farm up for auction When Dauriac visited South Africa in 2002, "he fell in love with Stellenbosch" and selected the 36ha Marianne estate with "exceptional terroir" on Simonsberg. The estate prides itself on producing "batches of very high quality wines, with strictly manual harvesting and sorting".Rullier's lawyer, Brian Aronoff of Werksmans Attorneys, told the Sunday Times this week that Cinmark's assets, worth about R20-million, which it sought to attach, were claimed by a "third-party entity".This gave rise to a liquidation application, and an insolvency inquiry was convened. Dauriac was summoned to explain how the assets vanished, and how his family conducted the affairs of Cinmark."Dauriac, who is currently in Cape Town, was subpoenaed to attend the inquiry," said Aronoff. "We have been reliably informed that he is here for the harvest."According to Aronoff, the law firm has untangled Dauriac's web of companies and more litigation is on the cards.Dauriac is also the director of Off the Shelf, the company that owns the farm where Marianne Wine Estate operates. Aronoff said Off the Shelf owed Cinmark almost R12-million for improvements to the wine cellar."The liquidators of Cinmark have instructed us to proceed with a demand for payment of the R11.9-million from Off the Shelf. Should payment not be made, an application for the liquidation of Off the Shelf will be brought in the Western Cape High Court," said Aronoff.Approached for comment, Dauriac's spokesman, Philippine Althosser, said: "He is busy with something else."Kloppers postponed the inquiry to May 12 and held over the warrants of arrest until then.