Over the past 10 years, Braamfontein has undergone a complete makeover. The commercial developments of early Johannesburg have made way for chic new venues, fashionable housing options and stylish modern offices, but it s the restaurants, bars, and clubs in and around this cultural hub that have truly uplifted Braam and reintroduced it as a not-to-be-missed spot for locals and visitors alike. And Republic of 94, Braamfontein s newest resident, takes the culturally switched on heartbeat of the area to a whole new level. Get your gourmet hot dog fix at these awesome Joburg spotsFinding its home at 94 Juta Street, Republic of 94 is the brainchild of prominent Joburg restaurant entrepreneurs Ross Cornishs, Henry Cock, and Craig Smith. As the minds behind Braam s own 86 Public and The Immigrant, they know the area well and are passionate about spreading a love for Braamfontein and uplifting the area. A huge dedicated beer garden out back makes The Republic of 94 perfect for casual Sunday afternoon drinks, while the VIP leather booths offer exclusivity when you re meeting friends for dinner or celebrating something special. And if you re just looking for a spot to have a drink (or two), you ll feel just as comfortable sitting at the bar in your suit after work as you will grabbing a table with friends after a Saturday morning stroll around the Neighbourgoods market. </img>The gorgeous interior makes this a spot where you d want to spend an evening out. Image: SuppliedThe gorgeous interior makes this a spot where you d want to spend an evening out. Image: Supplied Ultimately, Republic of 94 is all about celebrating the heartbeat of Braamfontein: its people. And with the area s largest parkade situated right next door, it s perfectly placed for Joburgers, Braam locals and visitors to hang out together with complete peace of mind. Though it definitely has the solid feel of a place where you d want to spend an evening out, the food at Republic of 94 shouldn t be dismissed as your run-of-the-mill bar food. Arguably the best burgers in Braam, delicious salads, fantastic wraps, and old classics like beef ribs and chicken wings all grace the menu and will have you coming back time and time again. You can then wash it down with one of the many beers on tap. Republic of 94 is open from lunch until late from Thursday to Sunday. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.