Since December last year, Tobeka Madiba-Zuma - using the handle @firstladytzuma - has posted to Instagram almost every day, sharing pictures and descriptions of private moments with No1, of their family, and of official engagements.KaMadiba, one of four Zuma wives, has been on Instagram since 2013 and follows 173 people.While she has been open about aspects of her life on Instagram, publicly declaring her relationship with Zuma is "solid as a rock", KaMadiba did not respond to requests from the Sunday Times for comment on her posts.Hospital fires nurse after rant about Zuma wife's plastic surgeryFour weeks ago she posted a throwback picture of when the couple first met more than 20 years ago. "Remembering at 21 the day we met!" she said. "It had to be destined for me to be on the other side of the counter as a banker ... and the rest is history. We have been through many, many storms and lived in different cities yet our love has stood the test of time. After all these years I'm still in love with you!"I see us climbing mountains together and soaring to new dimensions ... Dedicated to my husband and friend for 24 years. Yes I have known him for most of my life!"Relationship expert Dr Marlene Wasserman said KaMadiba's flurry of posts since December could be seen as "mate-guarding"."My first reaction is that she is feeling threatened ... there's something that's causing her to feel insecure," she said."That's what happens when people take things public as if to show there is a resilience in their private lives. She's publicly claiming the president. She may be afraid that he's going to be stolen away."She wants to let people know that this is her man ... She wants people to know he's unavailable. It seems she's really trying to prove that they have a strong marriage."This is the challenge women face in a polygamous relationship," Wasserman said.KaMadiba posted a video clip last month in which Zuma, speaking at a public event, describes their first meeting in the bank.KaMadiba added this comment: "When he tells this story, I always want to crawl under the table ... #husbandandwife #submission #marriedforlife."Love was a powerful drug, KaMadiba said in the post. "When you feel it, you really feel it. It can suspend time, making the whole world seem still except for you two."The first couple are also seen side by side in matching golf shirts at the Presidential Golf Challenge on the day after the state of the nation address last month.KaMadiba lamented in another post that being so madly in love had given her insomnia. When you feel it, you really feel it. It can suspend time, making the whole world seem still except for you two "You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams. Love recognises no barriers. It jumps hurdles, leaps fences, penetrates walls to arrive at its destination full of hope."Have fallen in love many times, always with the same person. Love is a beautiful feeling."Zuma's other current wives are Sizakele Khumalo-Zuma, Nompumelelo Ntuli-Zuma and Bongi Ngema-Zuma. MaNtuli no longer lives at Nkandla.Zuma's former wives are Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Kate Mantsho, who committed suicide. He also has two children with a Pietermaritzburg businesswoman.KaMadiba told the Sunday Times in an interview last year that the four spouses were "family", and that she enjoyed a healthy relationship with her fellow first ladies.A post shared by TMZF Founder &amp; Patron (@firstladytzuma) on Jan 30, 2017 at 11:40am PST A post shared by TMZF Founder &amp; Patron (@firstladytzuma) on Mar 22, 2017 at 7:52am PDTKaMadiba dispenses relationship and health advice in equal measure to her almost 60,000 followers."A loving relationship is something to treasure, to nurture and cultivate. Your connection should deepen with time and allow you to evolve as a couple as well as individually. While there are many ways to foster the best in your relationship, one approach is to encourage the best in your partner."She has also encouraged South Africans to follow her dietary example of eating more vegetables and less meat.Two weeks ago, when Zuma visited Jozini on official business, KaMadiba posted a picture of herself that was apparently taken by the president."I don't often get a chance to stop, reflect, take stock, but the beauty of Jozini's nature was compelling. My photographer was not too shabby either," she wrote.Political analyst Sanusha Naidu said: "If this is what the first lady has been doing, it's her right ... Maybe she likes pictures of herself and being in the spotlight."The Presidency did not respond to queries about the posts.govendersu@sundaytimes.co.za