Jessica Chastain took on more than an acting role when she signed up for Miss Sloane.She plays a hard-hearted, pill-popping, power-hungry, double-crossing Washington DC lobbyist who is seemingly devoid of an emotional cell. Detached from others, she does not sleep, rarely eats and employs male escorts in businesslike fashion. No cuddling or small talk, thanks."This female character is really confusing people," Chastain says on the phone from Paris. "But every woman is a strong woman, right? Just as every man has sensitivity. People have said I play a lot of strong women and she [Elizabeth Sloane] is absolutely a powerful woman." Director John Madden on his new movie 'Miss Sloane'In the film, Sloane, the most sought-after lobbyist on Capitol Hill, is asked to take a pro-gun approach for a client. Instead, she joins an underdog firm that represents the ethical side of the fight. She is determined to win, even if it means using espionage and deceit. She's hard-core, without what some might think of as womanly characteristics."What are womanly characteristics?" asks Chastain. "I think women should be whoever they want to be, soft and docile or strong and loud. For too long we have been defined by a society that tells women they should be docile. Women should wear whatever they want to wear ... cover up, wear heels, whatever. When men dictate how we should act, and dictate who we should be, it is a problem."Sloane is challenged by a woman of the opposite extremes, played by British-South-African actress Gugu Mbatha-Raw, who Chastain says is "an incredible human being, compassionate and passionate. Her character shocks Elizabeth by forcing her to connect with her humanity."Mbatha-Raw plays Esme, a victim of gun violence who is used by Sloane as a pawn in the lobbying game, with consequences that nearly break Sloane's icy heart.Chastain and Mbatha-Raw are thrilled that their film passes the "Bechdel test". Devised by cartoonist and graphic novelist Alison Bechdel, it judges films on whether their female protagonists talk about things other than men. "I was really happy because in our film, we see the female mentor other women," said Chastain. "In my life, women have always helped and protected each other, but the media doesn't always show women that way."Chastain says female star power is "underrated, as is the market value of women-centred films".WATCH the trailer for Miss Sloane In life, she is vociferous on racism, hate crime and discrimination, including the salaries of women in Hollywood."To portray a workaholic, flawed woman is a better choice to have in the media right now. During the electoral debates, Hillary Clinton was described by a reputable news source as 'over-prepared'."She scoffs: "Never before, in my entire life, has being over-prepared been a negative. The media and society say how a woman has to be, and this is why we have to challenge that."Miss Sloane was released shortly after the US election results were announced. "We were in a state of political shock," says Chastain. "The film was released on the day of the women's marches in DC. It was the largest nonviolent march in the history of the US. It totally gave us a new way to see the film."Lobbyists are real people whose job it is to try to influence senators to change legislation, through sometimes nefarious means. "Actors are hired to show up at events and ask the right questions, that's exactly what you're seeing in the film," says Chastain. "It's a chess game. What surprised me was I had a na ve view of politics. I thought the American population determined the elections and the law - but that is not the case." 'Miss Sloane' is in cinemas.