By Victoria &amp; Albert Museum, R326, Thames &amp; Hudson If you're a fan of William Morris, you'll go nuts for this beautiful colouring book. Featuring 45 of the artist's famous patterns, the book allows you to create your own colourways, but also includes full-colour reproductions of the original designs for you to compare and reference.Arranged in four sections - nature, colour, pattern and craft - each includes concise introductory texts that explore the artist's influences and the skills behind his patterns. Morris lived in the 1800s but his patterns are still immensely popular today, and this book gives people a wonderful opportunity to experiment with and reinterpret the master's work.By Joost Grootens, R895, Phaidon The December holidays are long gone, and you' re dreaming of your next escape. If you can't get away, this book is the next best thing. It features 60 contemporary homes, all of which have a special relationship with the world around them.Among them are designs by leading 20th-century architects, including Mies van der Rohe's Illinois riverside woodland retreat, Oscar Neimeyer's Brazilian "Casa Canoas" jungle pavilion and Frank Lloyd Wright's "floating" waterfall sanctuary.A visually breathtaking selection, each home blends into the landscape and many have been designed using materials and forms found in the region. These homes connect with the forests, mountains, lakes, deserts and oceans around them, making this book fodder for design and nature lovers alike. 4 books that will make your life simpler, greenerBy Drusilla Cole, R358, Laurence King Publishing This exquisite picture book chronicles 100 years of classic patterns, with designs from around the world. Featuring work by celebrated artists such as Henry Moore and Eduardo Paolozzi, as well as contemporary artists such as Eley Kishimoto and Rob Ryan, the book is a visual summary of surface design from the beginning of the last century to the present day.Packed with original patterns from textiles, wallpaper, furniture, ceramics and other decorative designs, the book also features rarely seen archives of leading manufacturers and private collections. Whether you're a professional designer, a hobbyist or simply an aesthete with a penchant for pattern, this book is bound to give you hours of inspiration.By Willem Elias, Frank Huygens and Bart Lens, R712, Lannoo It's been inspiring to witness the revival of crafts over the past few years. In South Africa, we are seeing jewellers, leather producers, cheesemakers, boutique wineries, ceramicists - the list goes on - finding an audience for their hand-crafted items.This beautiful book explains how innovative technologies such as 3D printing and water and laser cutting have made crafts profitable for producers, both stimulating their creativity and allowing them to produce affordable items. It offers an overview of these objects, and is an insightful and aesthetically pleasing depiction of how technology, industry, craft and sustainability are no longer opposing concepts; rather they have come together as collaborative pillars of design.