The Jouberts are Big Cat people. For some three decades they have lived in the bush and documented leopards, cheetahs and lions up close, earning the title of National Geographic Explorers-in-residence.In Soul of the Cat, they turn their lens on the household cat, to show how much it has in common with big cats.You've NEVER seen animals do this before: 'Planet Earth II' will mesmerise you"We have a fascination with cats big and small," says Dereck. "In Soul of the Cat we show the similarities between the behaviour of small cats and that of the lions, leopards and cheetahs we have observed. We are pulling the natural world into the human world. If you squint your eyes at your cat and scale it up, you have a big cat."The film demonstrates the connections between feline pets and untamed cats, from the movement of their eyes and muscles, to their behaviour.They mark and defend their territory in the same way. They nurture and play in a similar way. They mate in a similar way."Their hunting behaviour is identical: how they identify their prey, make themselves small and stalk it, then chase and draw first blood," he says.They show how each of the domestic cats' movements - whether sharpening claws on trees, lapping water, jumping or grooming - mirrors those of big cats.The couple are dedicated to the conservation of wild animals and started the Big Cat Initiative with National Geographic."We want to grow new young conservationists and there is no finer way than exposing them to predators. The best way to do this is starting with the domestic cat," says Dereck.Beverly says they also want people to learn from cats, about fearlessness and sharing, even empathy.Early in one leopard cub's life, the pair crossed its path one stormy day and it accepted them."When it was about 14 months old, it was kicked out by its mother and learnt to hunt by catching squirrels. One day it took a leap and caught a mother baboon. Instinctively it dragged it up a tree and out of the fur of the mother came a newborn baby."The young leopard's nurturing instincts came out. It picked up the baboon by the scruff of the neck and took it with it. The leopard licked and groomed the baby and it fell asleep on its neck."The cub did not hurt the baboon baby, but it did not survive without its mother."We did not expect what we saw and the basic quality the cub showed was empathy. This behaviour has been evident in lions, leopards and elephants we have filmed. Females will allow the cubs of someone else to suckle off them," says Beverley.</img>Award-winning wildlife filmmakers Beverly and Dereck Joubert are big cat people. Image: CREATIVE BEING/BEVERLY JOUBERTAward-winning wildlife filmmakers Beverly and Dereck Joubert are big cat people. Image: CREATIVE BEING/BEVERLY JOUBERTThe couple have made 25 films, three of which have won Emmy awards.They captured on film a pride of lions in the Okavango Delta in Botswana hunting elephant and bringing one to its knees. The pachyderm looked as if it had given up when, in a last surge of courage, it got up off its knees and escaped the pride.Beverly says people could learn about courage from wild animals. Apart from the feelings they evoke, big cats are vital to the survival of all species.Dereck says: "They keep big prey on the move and this churns up the ground for the rain and keeps everything in harmony. Without them the ecology starts to collapse."But the survival of big cats in the wild is threatened. Lion populations have dropped 43% in the past 20 years to about 20,000 lion in the wild, according to a recent report."We are losing cats for several reasons: loss of habitat, lion safaris, the new lion bone trade and retaliation by villagers to protect their stock," says Beverly. The South African government plans to export 800 captive-bred lion skeletons a year for trade.The Jouberts also have a project with the Botswana government to move about 100 rhino to act as a "Noah's Ark" for the species.They have started an organisation called Great Plains Foundation - 90 projects in 27 countries - to work with communities in Africa.In their films they have focused on large predators and key species but they almost always come back to cats as the main characters.As Dereck says: "There is something special about cats. I think it is the wildness about them, how they hunt and kill and don't need humans to survive." 'Soul of the Cat' screens on Sunday, March 5, at 6pm on Nat Geo WILD (DSTV 182). March is Big Cat month on Nat Geo WILD.