So spare a thought for Southern Kings coach Deon Davids, who some will argue is at the wheel of a hearse.The Kings are believed to be one of the teams earmarked for Super Rugby euthanasia when the competition is reshaped for next season. Many will see it as a mercy killing. Davids, however, has become adept at doing his job under leaden skies.With the decision likely to be announced in the coming weeks, team morale is likely to be in peril but the coach, ever the pragmatist, says there is no need to dwell on things over which he has no control. Super Rugby? Not a fat chance in hell"It's a very sensitive topic and I really don't want to sound disloyal to my employer," Davids said."Players think, they hear and get advised and they have to look at their future. Obviously it will have an impact on them. You have to admit that it is there but we must try to manage it."No team wants to be in that position because as much as you want to focus on your opposition, external factors come in."All I can do is focus on weekly tasks. We also don't want to make the excuse that it affects our results. We must try and make the best of the situation we are in. We will get judged on that. I've got their futures in my hands."Davids has carried a heavy burden. He's had to start from scratch this year as the franchise found it near impossible to retain the core of last year's squad. Even the Currie Cup squad has moved on."That's why this has become a consistent learning experience. You need much more clarity and continuity to build."Does he have any regrets signing up for a job in which staying afloat is the primary objective?"It's been a tremendous experience," he said. "I have learnt so much in terms of how to run an organisation and build something from nothing. Doing a job under pressure. Champions Canes rout Landers to get title campaign back on track"Every week we analyse top coaches, top players and top minds in a top competition. You see different things and you are consistently challenged."You have some moments where you doubt yourself. I've learnt that you have to have a clear understanding of what you believe in and how you go about stuff. Decide what is controllable and measure yourself in terms of clear outcomes. Then it becomes easy because you live within that process."If you open yourself to criticism that doesn't fully take into account the operations of the team, you can get lost. People must realise this is a project."Davids has sought to find a path through all the noise and clutter. "You have to be streamlined in your approach and have clarity in your philosophies. You have to be clear in your methodology."You also have to inspire and motivate people irrespective of the situation. Then you can see how you develop as a coach and as a person."Who said hearse drivers can't be driven?