Ever told him to sod off, turned over and gone back to sleep?Of course you have: men prefer morning sex - their testosterone levels are highest in the morning, having built up overnight, but over the course of the day, those levels dip and by the time a man goes to sleep, his enthusiasm is somewhat depleted. In short, the horny hormones are weaker at night.Then he goes to sleep, his body repairs itself and the next morning he wakes up raring to go again.Women don't have the same biological makeup, so chemically we're less inclined to want to indulge in bedsports first thing.Enjoying a healthy sex life could give your career a boostBut there are plenty of non-chemical factors at play, too. Women often have a tighter morning routine due to the (totally ridiculous) expectation that we'll show up to work with half of the cosmetics counter applied to our faces, whereas men can get away with wearing the same suit every day with a different shirt.But none of this is new. What is new, however, is that the study's researchers have discovered that couples who have sex the night before going to work outperform those who don't. Specifically, they were happier to perform tasks than colleagues who hadn't just got laid.As one of life's least morning-sexy people, I couldn't help thinking this was a win, proof there is no benefit to getting frisky directly before work - at least no benefit not also gleaned from having nice, leisurely sex the night before.So, given that women don't really like it, and we get 24 hours of after-glow anyway, should we be ditching morning sex entirely?Despite my reticence about getting it on before 9am, I still think the answer is no. I don't like morning sex - but I do like how it makes me feel.When I go to work having woken up early enough to have sex, I find myself strutting like the love child of Beyonc and a late-1990s Britney. I arrive at work glowing, smug and intensely proud of myself.Why?While the Oregon State University research says that employees were happier at work whether they'd had sex that morning or the night before, I reckon that those who had sex directly before work would be even more productive. Because when you've managed to have sex before work, you feel like a superhero.As Petra, 46, told me: "If I've had sex before work, I feel like everyone can tell. There's a spring in my step. Even if I didn't wake up wanting sex, having it makes me feel empowered."Why food & sex comfort us when we're stressedWhen I (very) occasionally hit the gym before work, I feel sanctimonious all day. I've managed to tick something off my list that is socially commendable in the dead time usually reserved for dragging myself through a shower and passive-aggressively liking frenemies' Instagram posts. It's the same when I get busy before work.There's more to it than just feeling productive, though. It's a sense that I've connected with my partner and clawed back a section of the day which would otherwise just have been preparation for commuting and then going to work. It makes the morning fully and properly mine.Maybe I've been too quick to write off morning sex, based on the fact that my partner wants it more than I do. The truth is that waiting for the perfect moment is rarely a good idea - if you won't get sweaty until the sheets are silk, the kids are with their grandparents and you've had an hour-long bath, then your sex life is going to suffer.So yes, morning sex might not be the time that I feel most aroused, but does that make it less valuable?Sex doesn't always have to be about the satiation of desperate desire. When you've been with your partner for many years, sometimes it isn't about that at all. Sometimes it's about connecting, intimacy, and, dare I say it, even love.And then sometimes it's about going to work, feeling smug about your dirty secret and being able to take a moment during the day to close your eyes and remember how good you had it that morning. - The Daily Telegraph, London