What brings you to Paris?I was invited to come for Paris Fashion Week. After joining an agency in New York a couple of weeks ago, it was decided and facilitated by them and their satellite agency here.Tell us about your journey to becoming a modelI feel like my modelling has always happened in little bursts so I don't recognise it as one long journey. Each stint has its own character, challenges, lessons and delights. Ready for my close up: male model spills his grooming secretsYou started your modelling career a little later than most models. What are your thoughts on being in the industry right now?For a number of reasons I have always been insecure about owning the fact that I'm a model. But there is something about turning 29 during my first fashion week season that makes me really proud.It speaks to the fact that we just don't know how life is set to unfold. I suppose there is also a freedom in being able to welcome unexpected situations into my life and being able to learn from a variety of experiences.Runway or behind the camera? What would you choose and why?Probably runway because I'm not very good at it yet. I feel very humble in these big fashion houses, very wide-eyed. But on the runway it's up to me to finish well. The designer has done their bit. Unlike photo shoots, where there is still selection and retouching and sometimes it goes south. Having a good eye is sometimes torture for a clothes hanger.A surreal moment in your career?Lately has been pretty surreal in general.Reflections on meeting Karl Lagerfeld?It takes all kinds...</img>Nina Milner walks the runway at the Moschino designed by Jeremy Scott show during Milan Fashion Week Fall/Winter 2017/18. Image: Estrop/Getty ImagesNina Milner walks the runway at the Moschino designed by Jeremy Scott show during Milan Fashion Week Fall/Winter 2017/18. Image: Estrop/Getty ImagesWho is your favourite designer and why?I'm not very clued up on designers. I used to know only the classics like Gucci, Versace and Armani. But since being in the midst of FW17, I've realised how many designers and labels there actually are. So I must reserve the right to consider this question after Paris is over.You're also an actress. Are you reading any scripts at the moment and will we be seeing you in any interesting projects soon?I haven't done any acting work since 2009 and I don't know if I will again. It depends - perhaps if there is something particularly interesting. I don't want to play the type of role people offer to models.If you were not a model, what would you do?I'd study kinesiology and craniosacral therapy, and make the odd sculpture.What excites you about being a South African woman right now?I have always delighted in announcing that I am from South Africa. People always receive the information with warmth and that rules.What are your style staples?All-terrain base climbing shoes or anything with a practical, hardy sole. I never leave home without a Missibaba purse and, weather permitting, my AKJP parka.