This is according to AIC president Mandla Galo, who told the Sunday Times that Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe acceded to its demands after it threatened during a meeting last Saturday to remove the ANC from power in the two municipalities in which it is in coalition with the party. Galo said Radebe committed to start the reincorporation process as early as next month, when the proposal is expected to be tabled in parliament."We have agreed on a memorandum of understanding with time-frames. The secretariat [of the ANC and the AIC] will sign it before 31 March, the deadline we had set the ANC to resolve the issue of Matatiele or we would withdraw from the coalition in Ekurhuleni and Rustenburg. ANC risks losing more municipalities"We also agreed that the ANC will address the nation where they will be committing to release Matatiele to return to KwaZulu-Natal. In April, the legislative process will kick in ... [in] November the deal will become law. But seeing that November may be too far, we asked the ANC to conclude the process by September. Jeff Radebe said he would sell this to the ANC," said Galo.Radebe had not responded to written questions by the time of going to press. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe declined to comment.If a deal has indeed been struck, Luthuli House will find it difficult to convince its structures in the Eastern Cape to support the move as the ANC in the province has campaigned against it. The move would also have budgetary implications for the Eastern Cape as it stands to lose some of its allocations to KwaZulu-Natal. Nor would the procedure be easy as a lengthy parliamentary process would have to be followed to redraw the KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape boundaries. Municipal Demarcation Board spokeswoman Bulelwa Mbali-Khoele said there would first be a public participation process, followed by approval by the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal legislatures.Ultimately, the constitutional amendment would require a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, meaning the ANC would require the support of opposition parties.Both EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi and Phumzile van Damme of the DA said their parties would take a position on the matter only when it reached parliament. We are saying all 21 wards of Matatiele should go to KwaZulu-Natal. We'll leave Alfred Nzo district out of this Galo was confident that the move to reincorporate Matatiele into KwaZulu-Natal was supported by the majority of residents in the area. "It is feasible because the question of Matatiele has been done before. The government completed public consultations in 2009 and 67% of the people said they wanted to be administered from KwaZulu-Natal." While there had been suggestions that the AIC wanted Matatiele and the surrounding district to be returned to KwaZulu-Natal, AIC national spokesman and a participant in the negotiations Aubrey Mhlongo said the party only wanted the Matatiele local municipality, and not the Alfred Nzo district municipality, to be incorporated into KwaZulu-Natal.Said Mhlongo: "We are saying all 21 wards of Matatiele should go to KwaZulu-Natal. We'll leave Alfred Nzo district out of this."At a meeting with journalists in January this year, Mantashe argued that giving in to AIC demands would "open the floodgates" for other communities to put forward similar demands. ANC KwaZulu-Natal secretary Super Zuma declined to comment and ANC Eastern Cape secretary Oscar Mabuyane was not available to do so.