But the reality is that once creative businesses gain traction, the admin starts to outweigh the design time and the mounds of raw materials are quickly replaced with piles of paperwork.Textile designer Heather Moore of Skinny laMinx found herself in this situation but thanks to a dental procedure, of all things, she discovered the solution for her creative woes.</img>Textile designer Heather Moore of Skinny laMinx. Image: SuppliedTextile designer Heather Moore of Skinny laMinx. Image: Supplied"In 2009, I had dental work that needed doing and, despite my insane workload at the time, I found myself able to book off work for two solid mornings. It shocked me to realise that I was able to find time to do something I really didn't want to do, when I was always complaining about not having any creative time in the studio due to my demanding to-do list."Moore decided that if she could find time for the dentist, she really should be able to find time for her creative work too. "Finding time will always be tricky, so one has to make the time."And so she instituted Making Fridays, blocking off a sizeable chunk of time each week which she dedicates to being creative. "I'm really strict about this. It's not always a Friday anymore, but I schedule one day a week where I don't go in to the Skinny laMinx HQ, and instead hole up in a studio in Salt River and just draw or carve or print. I always make something."For Moore, without creativity, there would be no business. "You're going to run out of juice, you'll resent your work, and the whole endeavour will become a burden. It'll be just a job, which is not really the idea, is it?"</img>These Oddjects, which Heather Moore made during a pottery class, became the inspiration behind one of her fabric designs. Image: SuppliedThese Oddjects, which Heather Moore made during a pottery class, became the inspiration behind one of her fabric designs. Image: SuppliedMoore devotes her Making Fridays time to not doing the things she's "supposed" to do and instead doing things she wants to do - "even if they're not important or useful"."Making Friday is for off-the-menu stuff that does not contribute to your business productivity."To spend Making Friday studio time doing something that's "useful" or directed would be the perfect recipe for turning off the creative taps because you would be thinking in a business-like way, Moore says, "and those questions shut down the open-endedness that the creative endeavour requires".Moore's strict "anti-work" sessions have shaped Skinny laMinx's creative output."In 2016, I channelled my Making Friday energy into a pottery class with Louise Gelderblom, where I made a series of peculiarly shaped vessels. I used these silhouettes to create lino prints in my studio, which turned into our Oddjects textile design."