Q. We would like to go to one Greek island from August 20 to 28. Which island would you suggest, as there are so many?We would possibly do day trips to other islands close by. This one island should be beautiful, have good swimming beaches and have enough to do for a week.It does not necessarily need to be one of the popular islands. Boarding a traditional sailing vessel is the best way to explore TurkeyHow would we get there from Athens? - Margaret SadieA. Greece has about 230 inhabited islands, so even with tourist access to far fewer, there is still a bewildering choice.Only you can really choose, by your main interests, by word-of-mouth, or by what you have read.There are six major clusters of islands, with the most "typical" (whitewashed cube houses set above azure seas) and popular being the Cyclades, which also lend themselves most to island-hopping.They include the popular holiday islands of Mykonos and Santorini.The Ionian islands off the northwest coast of Greece include Corfu, Kefalonia and Zante, and are the greenest of the groups.The Dodecanese are along the Turkish coast and, as they are the hottest, they include the popular beach destinations of Kos and Rhodes.As first-time visitors you could stick to the Cyclades, and base yourself on any of them - Santorini, Mykonos, Ios, Naxos, Paros, Amorgos, Andros, Folegandros or Syros.The first two are most popular as stops for Mediterranean cruise liners, which may not suit you, but they do have the only international airports.The rest are reached by ferry services that usually have reliable timetables. You can reach all the Cyclades by ferry from the port of Athens.Santorini is immediately recognisable, with the blue waters of its caldera (former volcano) and steep cliffs with houses carved into the hillsides.Mykonos is the most popular Greek island, attracting a diverse group of tourists, notably gay people, but far from exclusively. Some of the beaches are very party-oriented in the evenings, especially to the south of the island.Naxos is the largest of the Cyclades and is well placed as a base for exploring other islands in the group.For tourists, it has the perfect blend of ancient ruins and beach culture. (Delos, for example, has just ruins. You can't stay on the island, but it's worth visiting.)As a far bigger island, Crete has a lot more to offer when it comes to things to see, with a rich archaeological and mythological history. Although you will find good, simple food all over Greece, Crete offers the best and it has done much to revive Greek cuisine.</img>Fiskardo on Kefalonia in Greece. Image: iStockFiskardo on Kefalonia in Greece. Image: iStockRhodes is the largest and most popular of the 12 Dodecanese islands on the Aegean's eastern edge. You may want to avoid the northern and eastern coasts with high-priced hotels, but small villages and resorts dot the island's other shores.Rhodes is widely regarded for having the best nightlife of the islands, but avoid the resort of Faliraki - Rhodes Town has a better reputation.If none of the above really appeals to you, and if you want a family holiday, head to Corfu off the west coast of the mainland.It too has whitewashed houses, a Roman village at Kassiopi, Byzantine churches, a ruined Venetian fortress and Greek temples.Kefalonia, the setting for Louis de Berni res's novel Captain Corelli's Mandolin, has great wine and beaches, and as a larger island, it has much to explore including the Drogarati caves and the nearby island of Ithaca .Getting to and around the islands is part of the fun, despite logistics.Usually it is not necessary to book ferry tickets in advance, but as you are travelling in the very peak holiday season, you should do so. There are many online portals through which you can do this.The ferry companies release their itineraries two or more months in advance, so start looking in about April or May.If you are stopping in Athens for a few days on arrival, you could ask your hotel to book or tell you how to. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za