If you haven t yet taken the time to visit Stoke City Adventure Park in Midrand, you re missing out. Make the best of the last days of summer and book tickets for the Aqua Park: a series of inflatable slides, runways, jumping pillows and bouncers which are connected together to create Africa s first floating obstacle course in the centre of a lake. Along with swings, ramps, ladders, a trampoline, a slide, and much more, it s like living your own personal episode of Wipeout.Hooray! The drive-in is making a comeback in JoburgAppropriate for both adults and kids of all ages, the team behind Honeydew Mazes promise to amaze you, and what better way is there to spend a few hours than by getting lost with your nearest and dearest? Booking isn t necessary if you re just a casual walk-in group, and the giant maze involves a quiz element that makes for a fun and interesting experience. Mark off about three hours in your calendar to make sure you ve got time to do both the giant maze and a few of the smaller mazes, and be sure to wear comfortable walking shoes and a hat.Until 28 May, Emperors Palace will be home to some of the most incredible animatronics on Earth, all the way from the planet Cybertron. Book tickets for you and your kids for Transformers Animatronics and you ll be able to see the Autobots, Decepticons, Dinobots and Rescue Bots in the flesh (or in the metal, rather). With the show fresh from a Latin American tour, your kids will be awed and inspired by the incredible sculptures (made from wrecked cars) and ground-breaking performance technology that brings Optimus Prime, Megatron, Bumblebee and their companions to life right before your eyes.</img>Take your kids to the awe-inspiring Transformers Animatronics at Emperors Palace. Image: SuppliedTake your kids to the awe-inspiring Transformers Animatronics at Emperors Palace. Image: Supplied This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.