Siraj Desai became a household name when he worked as a defence attorney for struggle activists. He was one of 14 public protector hopefuls last year; came under fire for an alleged incident in a Mumbai hotel in 2004 after a South African woman accused him of rape but later withdrew the charges under oath; presided over the trial of Najwa Petersen, whom he convicted of murdering her entertainer husband, Taliep; and conducted an inquest into the death of former Proteas captain Hansie Cronj .Siraj Desai became a household name when he worked as a defence attorney for struggle activists. He was one of 14 public protector hopefuls last year; came under fire for an alleged incident in a Mumbai hotel in 2004 after a South African woman accused him of rape but later withdrew the charges under oath; presided over the trial of Najwa Petersen, whom he convicted of murdering her entertainer husband, Taliep; and conducted an inquest into the death of former Proteas captain Hansie Cronj . Susan Galloway prosecuted Phoenix Racing Cloud Theron and her ex-boyfriend Kyle Maspero who were charged with murdering Theron's mother, artist Rosemary. She was also instrumental in the notorious train-and-taxi-accident murder trial which saw taxi driver Jacob Humphreys put behind bars for jumping the light in 2010, causing the death of 10 children; and worked for the state in the Najwa Petersen case, famously slamming the "Black Widow" for never saying sorry for her ghastly actions. Pieter Botha assisted in the defence of Shrien Dewani, who was on trial for killing his bride, Anni, in 2010 but was acquitted for lack of evidence. He also defended Wilhelm Treurnicht, a farm manager from Robertson who stood accused of assaulting Flippie Engelbrecht, the 13-year-old son of a farmworker who claimed that Treurnicht bashed his head against a wall and set dogs on him. Treurnicht was acquitted.Marli van Breda might take the stand. Only 16 when her elder brother and parents were axed to death, she sustained major head and brain injuries which were said to have left her with retrograde amnesia. After leaving hospital and returning to school, she was placed in the care of her guardians, Sonja and Andr du Toit. She turned 18 in October. Louise Buikman has been key in protecting Marli van Breda after being appointed her curator by the high court. Last October, when Marli turned 18, the court ordered Buikman to continue her role which would be reassessed in January next year.