Nothing beats a snack. You can have it instead of a meal or as well as a meal, as a way to save time, to soothe and comfort a weary soul, or to create a social occasion. Snacks allow you into the culture of a country there's nothing nicer than a beaming Turkish baker down a narrow side street in Istanbul offering you an authentic borek, the best flaky pastry snack in the world.Belgium has chips drowning in mayo, Brazil has small cheesy bread balls, Argentina offers stuffed pastries, while dumplings are the favourite street snack in China.WATCH: Durban chef's Ed Sheeran parody curries favour with patronsIndia of course has chaat, and Durban has The Snack Bar at the Spice Emporium, way down at the bottom of Monty Naicker Road, which is the go-to place for chaat and a chat.Chaat is the term for a range of savoury snacks that can be had throughout India, either bought at eateries or from vendors on the side of the road. They are usually bite-sized bits of dough, often containing potato.Mira Harie, a graphic designer, has created a space inside the Harie family business that's trendy and fun with its poster art, fairy lights and bright colours. The casual vegetarian eatery fits comfortably into the Spice Emporium, a warehouse-size shop that sells everything culinarily Indian, from spices to recipe books to tandoor ovens.Enough snacks qualify as lunch, so four of us went along, keen to shop as well as eat. Do your shopping before you eat; it's difficult to find the energy to work your way up and down the aisles when uncomfortably stuffed beyond normal human capacity. The portions are overgenerous; the chef, from India, beams if you clean your plate and comes close to tears if you don't.My favourite is pani puri, a light puffed dough ball filled with potato and tamarind paste to which you add a spicy mint liquid. Pop the entire biteful into your mouth quickly to avoid accidents.We ordered every other type of puri on the menu as well as khaman dhoklaa steamed savoury cake bateta vada, a deep fried potato patty and vada pav, an Indian style mini burger with a potato patty and a choice of chutneys. It's one of the best loved street foods in Mumbai, and was a hit at our table.All was washed down with glasses of limbu pani, lemonade with black pepper and sugar syrup. No one manned up for a Bombay Crush, that teeth-achingly sweet rose-flavoured milkshake, but I did go home with a box of Tetley's masala tea. I'll give the Crush a go next time I feel like a chaat.An insider s guide to the best eats in DurbanWhen to go: Weekdays from 10am-4pm, Saturday until 2.30pm , Sundays until 3.30pm.Who to take: Those who want a taste of the motherland as a change from Durban Diaspora curry.What not to do: Fall over the line-up of trolleys and shopping baskets at the entrance to the snack bar.What to drink: That excellent lemonade or the Indian cold drink Thumbs Up.Whatever you do: Shop until you drop.How much do you need: Nothing costs more than R28 a plate.Address: 31 Monty Naiker Road. (Indoor parking.)Phone: 031-332-5888 This article was originally published in The Times.