The father of two from Randhart, south of Johannesburg, has joined a string of personalities - including royalty and boxing legends - who have taken up the sport.Notable pigeon fanciers are Queen Elizabeth, King Philippe of Belgium and former world boxing champions Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield. The late local crooner Bles Bridges was also a fancier. Three of Kitchenbrand's four properties in Alberton have lofts that house 1,000 prize birds bearing names like Queen Elizabeth, Victor Matfield, Super Girl, Dr Feel Good and Dressage Diva.WATCH: This South African guy bought a pigeon for R5 million Potential bird buyers are put up in Kitchenbrand's fourth property, a guesthouse.Every morning starts with trips to his lofts to ensure his "children" have been fed. He spends between R50,000 and R100,000 a month on food, with protein and vitamin supplements. Every year the birds are taken for vaccinations."A happy bird is a healthy bird and it will win," said Kitchenbrand, whose family have been involved in pigeon racing for about 100 years.Ten years ago he spent R1.2-million to buy the top six racing pigeons at an auction in Sun City. All were from Germany."I received phone calls from all over the world from people wanting to place orders for the offspring. All had competed in what we call the pigeon Olympics."Soon afterwards he opened his company, Kitchenbrand's Loft, which today employs 15 people.The pigeons have to be fed, transported and trained for short and long-distance races."To test their readiness to race, the birds will be taken out to a place 5km from home and they need to fly back."Each bird is tagged with an identity number. When they touch down we know which bird came first and what their time was," said Kitchenbrand, who also trains birds owned by other pigeon fanciers.One of the lofts houses the birds for sale. "Each customer is given a pedigree of the bird which traces its bloodline for the past 30 years."In the breeding loft I keep birds that are five years and older. They are too tired to enter any competition. Of course the best cock is always paired with the best hen." I have invested more than R30-million in the birds. I have Springbok colours and have collected 200 trophies in Germany This month Kitchenbrand and his business partner, Samuel Mbiza, beat all other bidders to buy Golden Prince.The bird remains in Belgium, where it will breed.Kitchenbrand is expecting to get 20 offspring from Golden Prince this year.While the first four will be shipped to South Africa, the others will be sold for anything from 15,000 to 20,000 (about R206,000 to R274,000)."I have invested more than R30-million in the birds. I have Springbok colours and have collected 200 trophies in Germany," Kitchenbrand said."A big competition like the $1-million (R13-million) race in Sun City can give you exactly that amount: a $1-million dollar payout if your bird is the fastest among the lot."