The answer to his seemingly oversized influence on the genre lies in his latest album, Rather You Than Me.Playlist vs album: Drake proves there really is a difference with 'More Life'For most artists, by the time their ninth album comes out, a creeping complacency has snuck up on them. That deep into a career many musicians lack a certain hunger or seem convinced that their fan base will follow them down any rabbit hole. Jay-Z's ninth album, Kingdom Come, for example, came in way below the bar that his previous eight albums had set and after Black Market, Ross's last album, Rather You Than Me seem destined to do the same. Lo and behold what came out is arguably his best work to date.Clearly energised by a feud with Birdman, Meek Mill's relationship troubles, Donald Trump and the zeitgeist of urban American culture, Ross has delivered something that is socially aware without being preachy, and gangster without being trite. All of this over beats that could raise the dead.On Idols Become Rivals he assumes the role of big brother, roasting Birdman over the coals for his treatment of Lil Wayne and DJ Khaled in contract issues. Birdman has an established history of not paying his artists what they are due. Instead of sounding vengeful, Ross comes across as a brother standing up for his kin. Make no mistake, he is menacing, but this menace is not cheapened by a plethora of threats.From there and throughout the album he vacillates between reflective and content. Like a man who has run the gauntlet and come out the other side better for it. Don't let the maturity of the album fool you into thinking that Ross has mellowed out. One of his talents throughout his career has been having an ear for a beat. The production on this album is reminiscent of an ermine coat surmounted with gold clasps, luxurious in a way that couldn't give a blue tit about decorum. The beats are big, braggadocious and as layered as an onion within the movie Inception.Perhaps then the reason Ross occupies such a large space in hip-hop culture is that he shows that you don't have to be the greatest rapper of all time or sell 20million records off one album. If you are loyal, do the basics right and have one of the best ears for music of this past generation then maybe an all-access pass to that pantheon is deserved.WATCH the music video for Trap trap trap from Rick Ross's new album Rather You Than Me Idols become Rivals She On My D**k Scientology Triple Platinum Summer Seventeen 'Rather You Than Me' is available on Apple Music, Google Play and other streaming services. This article was originally published in The Times.