But learning to love animals turned their lives around.Since a programme called Humane Education was introduced in six schools in 2014, "there's been a reduction in truancy, bad behaviour, bullying and swearing, and an improvement in grades", said the woman behind the project, Nicola Vernon. Now her brainchild is being rolled out to 25 more Overberg schools by Edith Wynne-Trollip, the Western Cape education department's senior education specialist for life orientation.Guinea pigs can be an autistic child's best friend"I would like to see it in every single school in the country. Teaching children to be kind to animals means they grow up to be kind to human beings," said Wynne-Trollip.Vernon came up with Humane Education while wrestling with reasons for the failure of social projects before she launched her Greyton Transition Town initiative."I kept thinking: 'Why? Why?' The answer finally came. It was all due to feelings of worthlessness in people."Humane Education creates an environment where the learner receives love from an animal and then we help them emanate it to their peers and family."Starting a relationship between a child and an animal became the catalyst for the development of empathy, she said. Stimulated to care, children began to express feelings - often for the first time. Part of the natural ripple effect was a growth in sensitivity towards peers and the broader community."Once feelings of worthiness are there, creating boundaries and feeling safe then determines what children will and won't tolerate," said Vernon, who was inspired by the reduction in reoffending rates among ex-inmates of Cape Town's Pollsmoor prison who had cared for birds while behind bars.The principal of LR Schmidt Primary School in Genadendal, Simon Speelman, said he had noticed huge changes in his pupils. Now "everyone wants a horse or donkey to look after today", he said, although most have dogs, pigeons or pigs."Children used to ride their horses holding their manes only. Now they use a bridle. This is more comfortable for the horse and shows how they're being cared for," said Speelman. Talking to animals is completely normal for this 10-year-old Random checks for drug abuse have provided evidence of the project's success. "Dagga and alcohol abuse at weekends was one of our biggest issues, especially among nine- to 11-year-old girls," said Speelman."Within 12 to 18 months after Humane Education was introduced, 90% of these children changed their mindset and stopped."A Grade 3 class who cared for chickens and learnt about the conditions at battery farms wrote about their feelings afterwards. Their comments included "I don't like the way they are treated in batteries, I'd like to see that change" and "I did learn about a battery chicken that's kept in a very small cage and how the eggs roll down a wire and get taken to the shops. I don't like that the chickens are treated like this, you can put them in a big enclosure and they can still be safe but not in a cage".Said Vernon: "We're seeing something here that's going to change South Africa."