Beautiful as it may be, the Breede River Valley between Worcester and Ceres is somewhat off the map for many South Africans, a fact that the Stofberg family is looking to change - and fast. story_article_left1Having owned the Bosjes protea and fruit farm since the 1800s, the Stofbergs have recently developed it, adding to the 18th-century Cape Dutch manor house an avant-garde, glass-walled chapel, and a slick yet understated contemporary building that houses the newly opened Bosjes Kombuis restaurant. Celebrity chef Pete Goffe-Wood, consultant chef for the project, said: "We wanted the name to reflect a farmhouse-kitchen-style restaurant. It's not modern fine dining, it's more the kind of place you'd expect to find while driving through the country." To this end, the team opted for a small menu, which they're set to change on a regular basis. "We only have five starters, five or six mains and four desserts," said Goffe-Wood. "That way we can keep it interesting and guarantee everything is fresh." Farm produce is incorporated into the menu where possible and the restaurant team make their own breads and pickles. One of Goffe-Wood's favourite offerings on the menu is the Bosjes platter, which is packed with baked breads, chicken liver parfait, pickled vegetables and cured meats. "You won't find any fussy plating here - no smears, nipples or foams - just honest food prepared with heart," he said. "It's as close to home cooking as you can get, but considerably more refined." </img>The farmhouse-kitchen-style restaurant opts for a small menu, which they're set to change on a regular basis. Image: Adam LetchThe farmhouse-kitchen-style restaurant opts for a small menu, which they're set to change on a regular basis. Image: Adam Letch</img>Breede River Valley between Worcester and Ceres is somewhat off the map. Image: Adam LetchBreede River Valley between Worcester and Ceres is somewhat off the map. Image: Adam LetchBosjes Kombuis is open Wednesday to Sunday for lunch. Bosjes.co.za