In it he tells the story of the small signposts that have pointed him in the right direction throughout his life. He recently turned 71 and has over 7,000 performances to his name.Uys removes the masks, the eyelashes and the personas and opens his heart, taking audiences on a journey into his public and private life.He shares the personal mythologies and histories that led him to the stage, and tells of the influences in his life - his father, Hannes Uys, and mother Helga Bassel, his grandmothers, his teachers and his passions.Uys describes it as a tale of "a boy who was stricken by the disease to please from an early age, overshadowed by church and school and a very strict father". He has always used humour as a "weapon of mass distraction".This is the first time that Uys has told the story behind the stories as he takes his audiences into his confidence with his masterful storytelling, tongue-lashing wit and self-effacing humour."I think now that I've passed that road sign that says 'You can speed over 70 now' I can leave the security blankets of characters and the disguise of monsters, madams and moffies and just tell the stories behind the story."</img>A young Pieter-Dirk Uys at the Adderley Street flower market in Cape Town, 1957. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys A young Pieter-Dirk Uys at the Adderley Street flower market in Cape Town, 1957. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys</img>Pieter-Dirk Uys and his father, Hannes Uys, in 1948 at his childhood home in Pinelands, Cape Town. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys Pieter-Dirk Uys and his father, Hannes Uys, in 1948 at his childhood home in Pinelands, Cape Town. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys</img>Pieter-Dirk Uys and baby sister Tessa in June 1949. Tessa is now a distinguished concert pianist. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys Pieter-Dirk Uys and baby sister Tessa in June 1949. Tessa is now a distinguished concert pianist. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys </img>Pieter-Dirk Uys and his mother, Helga Bassel, in 1946. Bassel was born in Berlin and was a concert pianist in Germany. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys Pieter-Dirk Uys and his mother, Helga Bassel, in 1946. Bassel was born in Berlin and was a concert pianist in Germany. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys </img>Pieter-Dirk Uys with actress Sophia Loren backstage at his show in Hollywood in 1991. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys Pieter-Dirk Uys with actress Sophia Loren backstage at his show in Hollywood in 1991. Image: Courtesy of Pieter-Dirk Uys 'The Echo of a Noise' runs from March 22 to April 9 at the Studio Theatre, Montecasino, Johannesburg. This article was originally published in The Times.