Consumer research group JD Power undertook the study after shocking revelations that Wells Fargo employees had opened two million bank accounts without customers knowledge. The scandal followed a series of sagas that had shaken faith in the banking sector including the 2008 financial crisis that revealed lending and investment practices.US banking customers are still loyal but the relationship is becoming strained JD Power found. In the wake of the Wells Fargo crisis financial firms of every type have been taking a hard look at their sales practices and controls. For our part we really wanted to see this issue through the customer s eyes said Jim Miller senior director of retail banking services at JD Power.Now you can buy a share in the SA Reserve Bank - but it will not make you richSome of the report s findings include:- Banks Are Enjoying Strong Advocacy and Loyalty: More than 80 percent of retail bank customers say they trust their bank to do the right thing and just 4 percent do not think their bank acts ethically. - Cracks in the Foundation: The biggest obstacle to customer satisfaction is the use of overly aggressive sales practices.- Customers Surprised by New Accounts and Fees: Customers are often confused by banking fees. Nearly 14 percent of retail bank customers have had accounts opened and/or funds transferred without their knowledge and 12% say they were surprised by fees or charges they do not remember being told about when they opened the account .- Confusion Results in Reduced Loyalty: Forty-six percent of customers who were surprised by fees say they definitely will change banks. It may be surprising to some but customers continue to put faith in their banks as 79% of customers believe their bank acts in their best interest. However as we continued to dig deeper into the issue it became clear that an intense sales culture at some banks may indeed be driving short-term growth but it can erode loyalty and lead to a loss of future revenue Miller said. Banks must foster a customer-centered culture where they focus on meeting needs and providing relevant advice rather than just selling the next account. Perhaps surprisingly South African consumers are also quite enamoured with their banks according to research done last year.The South African Customer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi) showed overall satisfaction with the country s banks.