That is despite a ban on SA Rugby bidding for mega events still officially in place after Sports and Recreation Minister Fikile Mbalula imposed it 11 months ago.But Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom, who addressed the RWC delegation at a gathering in parliament on Wednesday, assured them that the bid had government's full backing. We will not be led by an agent Mr 20%, says Danny JordaanThat assurance came just 24 hours after Mbalula himself declared that government was fully behind SA Rugby's attempt to bring the event to South Africa for the first time since 1995. Mbalula imposed the ban based on the findings of a 2016 report from the Eminent Persons Group (EPG) on sports transformation. But this week, EPG chairman Willie Basson confirmed to the Sunday Times that an updated report had been handed to the minister. Basson did not want to pre-empt the minister's final decision but said that the "outcome of the process has led to significant improvements".The fact that Mbalula himself declared government's support for Rugby World Cup 2023 on Tuesday indicates that the follow-up EPG report contains good news for SA Rugby."The sports minister now fully supports the RWC 2023 bid. There isn't a question mark over that," Hanekom told the Sunday Times. "There was some concern [from the RWC delegation] but that has been put to rest."Personally speaking, in terms of transformation, rugby has made massive gains. Certainly at national level it's hardly an issue because nobody counts numbers anymore."I can't comment about whether the ban should be publicly rescinded, but we should welcome the news that Minister Mbalula has given the bid his public support rather than push him into a corner about formally rescinding the ban."With World Rugby asking SA Rugby for guarantees of 240-million (about R3.7-billion), government's financial support is essential. Besides finance though, no mega event can be staged without the full backing of all the organs of state, from security to transport and tourism.SA Rugby refrained from commenting at this stage while attempts to reach Mbalula and the department's director-general Alec Moemi were unsuccessful.Hanekom though was bullish about South Africa's prospects after meeting the delegation, even though government's lack of formal support over the past 11 months has put the SA Rugby bid on the back foot against Ireland and France."I was able to talk about what great value a mega event such as a Rugby World Cup has for our country, but I also spoke about our own state of readiness, which they [the delegation] have no doubt about," Hanekom said. Focus on young guns for next 2019 Rugby World Cup"The response from their side was positive, but they couldn't pre-empt the outcome because there are three countries bidding for the tournament."One thing they acknowledged is that from an infrastructure perspective we are very strong and have a serious advantage because of development we did for the 2010 Fifa World Cup."We have great stadiums spread around the country, so we are absolutely ready in terms of stadia, airports, roads, accommodation and also reputation." Hanekom wouldn't put a figure on potential earnings from hosting the World Cup, but he was confident it would produce a profit. "I would say with a degree of confidence that hosting RWC 2023 would be a net generator of revenue because there is no massive outlay of money on infrastructure," Hanekom said."The side benefits would also be huge. For the period of the event you get a lot of visitors to your country, but more importantly the visuals of your country on display gives tourism in general a massive boost."SA Rugby will formally submit its final bid book on June 1.