But the man they say is behind their woes, board chairman Zenzele Mzimela, is starting a new plum job at the beleaguered University of Zululand as executive finance director.After months of financial battles, employees received letters on February 28 telling them that there has been a delay in payment of their salaries. The letters, written and signed by acting CEO Ronnie Mokoena and seen by the Sunday Times, state that Music House has not received its allocation from the provincial department of arts and culture.Hip-hop & house had a love child: it's called Grime music (& it's trending)"The organisation is still in consultation with the department to release the outstanding payment," the letters read in part.Employees have accused Mzimela, whose Ubucule accounting firm was placed under provisional liquidation last year, of attempting to jump ship, leaving them to fend for themselves.The entity has also failed to produce new music and develop new artists, as per its mandate, and one senior employee said the company owed a service provider R250,000.Music House, once led by playwright Mbongeni Ngema, is embroiled in a dispute with arts and culture MEC Bongi Sithole-Moloi, who is not pleased with the board's operations and its exposing the entity to legal risk. Last year, she instituted a probe into its finances.This was after Music House was taken to the Labour Court by several staff members who claimed unfair dismissal at the end of 2015, following a haphazard restructuring process. The case, dragging since early last year, has cost the entity hundreds of thousands of rands.This week, the department declined to comment. Spokesman Lethukuthula Mtshali said that all queries should be directed to Music House. Acting head of department Mpumelelo Mnguni could also not be reached; Sithole-Moloi did not respond to a text message.Mokoena said he would answer all questions "in the next few weeks".He added: "We are well aware of the issues that have been raised as they are receiving attention. Unfortunately, we are not in a position to escalate them to the public space, pending a media briefing."Mzimela was parachuted into the top position in 2015 by former MEC Ntombikayise Sibhidla-Saphetha, but his tenure was marred by allegations of looting and plundering. Mzimela denied he was responsible for the problems of Music House. "It's unfair to me because it paints me as a dishonest person. The issue is about money there, not about me a person," he said.