But he's also prepared to extinguish that flame if his body breaks down once more.Jobodwana, the world championship 200m bronze medallist from 2015 whose 2014 and 2016 seasons were ruined because of different injuries, says he must prove himself again.He's had two 100m races this year, and while his times have been far off his 10.10sec best, he's run free of pain.Olympic 400m champion Wayde van Niekerk and 100m star Akani Simbine will put more effort into the 200m this year, which means that could be the race of the SA championships in Potchefstroom next month.Jobodwana, holder of the 19.87sec SA record, doesn't want talk about a three-way tussle involving himself just yet."I'm not putting myself in that category because I've been out. All I'm doing is taking my time and getting back into shape. Olympic hero wants black kids to shine"This potentially could be one of those seasons where I make a decision about whether I continue or not," added the 24-year-old."I'm young but it's the whole thing of injuries and all that stuff ... If I keep on getting injured then we need to start looking at a different future for myself and move on if I have to and be realistic about life."It's easy to understand Jobodwana's viewpoint.In 2012 he made the 200m final at the London Olympics and the following year he won the 100m and 200m double at the World Student Games and finished sixth in the 200m at the world championships.Then in 2014 he struggled with a hernia and bounced back spectacularly the following year to take third behind Usain Bolt and Justin Gatlin.Almost immediately he suffered a pelvic problem that robbed him of decent preparation time ahead of the Olympics.His heat in Brazil was his first race back and he failed to advance beyond the heats.As much as he tries to mute his enthusiasm, his passion still bubbles as he talks about taking the 100m seriously again. "I'm still hungry."I see myself doing both [100m and 200m]. I think I've wanted to do that for a while but I've never given myself the chance. You step away and you get injured."When you come back you really start to cherish what you can do. I'm going to take every opportunity I can now to test what I can really do in both distances."I've neglected the 100m for a while so I'm really excited to see what I can do with it."Jobodwana impressed from the moment he made the 200m final at the London Olympics in 2012.Usain Bolt soon tipped him as one to watch, and a world-renowned coach reckons Jobodwana has 9.7sec potential in the 100m. We have to think future as well and when we have kids we want to have them learn both cultures and be with both families Jobodwana's father-in-law, Dwayne Evans, the 200m bronze medallist at the 1976 Olympics, also holds him in high regard."My dad always encourages Anaso, makes sure he keeps his head on straight," said Jobodwana's American wife, Taylor, also a sprinter. "He sees him becoming one of the great athletes of all time."She and Jobodwana married in a Durban park last November, with only some witnesses present. "And it was beautiful."Jobodwana trained exclusively in the US until his injury last year, when he moved to his current base for treatment. He's keen to spend time in both countries."We love Durban, we've got a really good team over here, doctors that really take good care of me and her."We have to think future as well and when we have kids we want to have them learn both cultures and be with both families."sports@timesmedia.co.za