PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Today's full moon launches you into a new cycle of love. The relationships you were most sure of make a swift turn to the left. And the ones you didn't fully understand take on a fascinating clarity. Don't fight it. This is where your fabulous instincts will come in handy. Trust yourself to do what's right. This is a week when the only prediction worth making is that everything is about to change.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Love and money are after you, although the route may take a few peculiar twists. The money planet has gone on strike, ensuring unexpected delays and financial misunderstandings. Make sure you get everything in writing. And make sure that you know what you're talking about. That charming bamboozle thing you do won't cut it this time. But back to love, passion is on the cards. Plus fun.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Why is it that people with power are suddenly more alluring? Who cares why. The fact is, you've shifted focus. The likelihood of you ending up with someone "helpful" is fairly good now. Don't feel bad. As long as there is an equal exchange of energy and goodwill, it doesn't matter what form that energy takes. Even so, you might want to come up with a few other reasons to feel good about yourself.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Duty versus fun. How much for you and how much for them? This is not an area you particularly care to discuss. But since it's come up, the answer is this: only once you have satisfied your own needs will you be available to help out anywhere else. If you're miserable, you'll find you have nothing to give. This is also not the moment to alienate people you want on your side. Be nice.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)You may think things are not going according to plan. But look again. This is what's known as self-sabotage. Just when your life is starting to flourish, some tiny part of you decides it doesn't deserve all this success. Don't do this to yourself. Change your thinking and grab the prize. Remind yourself hourly that you are worthy of effortless success and happiness in all areas of life.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Your career planet is on lunch. How about amusing yourself with a trip; something close to home and utterly selfish. And don't fret about the cost. Money will be coming in from unexpected sources. Besides, since you're more desirable than ever, how about asking for a loan. Or rather, a gift. Loans create negative energy. Besides, you deserve a gift. A big one. Expect a miracle.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)If you've ever wanted to be a healer, now's the time to apply your gifts. And if you're just starting out, there are plenty of courses to show you how. Failing that, it is now your cosmic duty to make sure you're happy in every way. The world is tuning in to your energy, pulling its strength from yours. You have the ability to empower whatever you touch. Don't argue. Start touching.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Your planet has just gone into hiding. Which means, for once, you get to climb off your throne and amble among the commoners. Don't laugh. For six whole weeks you get to: stop trying so hard to please; amuse yourself without worrying about the impression you're making; discover your dreams; experiment with every embarrassing thought you've ever had. This is an exciting time.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)A magical moon is beaming on your inner world. Write down your dreams. They're trying to tell you something important. Watch your health. The headaches are back, reminding you to calm down and stop taking yourself so seriously. Take a moment to appreciate a love life that has moved into the realm of "happy". This is not the time to be experimenting with alternative delights.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Hog the spotlight if you like. Strangely, the idea is more appealing today than yesterday because the world seems like a friendlier place. As you stride onto the middle stage, look around. Success hovers tantalisingly close. Reach out and grab it. But don't promise more than you can deliver. That would be unnecessary. Oh, and if there's a book to be written, start today.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)Children, romance, creativity are all in need of patience. You may feel as though there's a noose around your neck, but everyone in your life is there to teach you something. The quicker you learn it, the quicker you get to move on. Your only drawback? That peculiar need to control that which is perfectly capable of controlling itself. Time to get out of your own way. And open up to success.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)You're at your brilliant best, averting dramas with quick thinking and clear-sighted wisdom. Try to keep your ego intact or the clarity will fog over. If you have any special creative talents, now's the time to use them. Your fortune is just waiting to be collected. And love is knocking loudly on the door. Find your courage, and open yourself up to your future. It'll be fun.