The company has grown immensely over the past six years, with its highly recognisable pieces kitting out many local restaurants and offices."We've been fortunate enough to work with some amazing interior and architecture firms," says Jarrad. "People want to add an edge, they want that punch and we deliver that and a level of quality that lasts in hard-used spaces."</img>Husband-and-wife team Jarrad and Lise Nelson of Dark Horse. Image: SuppliedHusband-and-wife team Jarrad and Lise Nelson of Dark Horse. Image: SuppliedThe couple have actively worked on increasing their sales over the past 14 months and see their growth as an extension of how people connect with Dark Horse as a brand."We recently made a bold call to push our e-commerce and shift away from traditional retail," says Jarrad. "Everyone said we're crazy but we know that people trust the brand and that they are starting to buy furniture online. The simple fact is that we don't have time to shop like we used to - having it delivered to your door and testing it in your space is much more convenient."Locally this move has paid off, and the couple have also started looking further afield. "We keep pushing," says Jarrad, admitting that "it's a hard hustle" to break into new markets. Two centuries later, William Morris is still inspiring designers of beautiful home accessories"Europe is picking up on our leather duffels and we see them being enjoyed from Berlin to Vienna," says Lise. "We've also just completed a supply of our Ribbed chairs to a trendy wine bar in Munich - it's amazing to think someone is enjoying a delicious glass of merlot in Munich on a Dark Horse bar chair right now. Wild."For Lise, the biggest challenge of being an entrepreneur is the many constant surprises, while for Jarrad it's the pressure of being responsible for a team and their many monthly commitments.Being a husband-and-wife team also comes with its ups and downs, but the couple say that even though they almost kill each other over design meetings, this is balanced by the many impromptu coffee breaks and the fact that they understand each other's stress levels.Stressful as it is, they wouldn't have it any other way. "You definitely need a thick skin to run your own business," says Jarrad, "but whenever someone buys a product or sends an e-mail or connects with us and just says, 'Hey I love what you do - keep doing it', it makes it all worth it." For more info and to shop online, visit dark-horse.co.za