However, even I have had my frustrations with the daily downpours. There was an almost two-week period when I couldn't even go on my stroll around the neighbourhood for exercise. I was that guy vegetating in the house, stuffing my face with pork belly and Chinese dumplings until my man boobs were growing back.So I forced matters one morning and went on my walk despite the skies threatening to unleash the mother of all storms. About 5km into my 11km route, the heavens opened. Within a few seconds I was totally drenched.There was no point in turning back because I was already too wet. I plodded on obstinately. You know when you're so wet even your undergarments and socks are drenched? It was that kind of storm. Happiness is a goalpost that keeps shiftingWith the Victoria Falls cascading down my face, I soldiered on.Walking in the rain brings about minor dementia in me. At some point I started hallucinating that the Lord was talking to me and telling me to build an ark to which I would bring a male and female of each species of animal on the planet. Sanity prevailed when I remembered that my name is not Noah and that I don't have an overgrown beard. Apparently, the Lord only reveals himself to men with beards. This is why I have never trusted Pastor Ray McCauley.But I digress.Isn't it interesting, the things we do when caught in the rain? Practically all of us bow our heads and try to tuck our chins into our chests - as if that helps. So, as I was walking in the rain, my chin tucked into my chest, I started thinking about Zulu folklore and rain.During the drought, a security guard at the Holiday Inn figured out from my accent that I'm from KwaZulu-Natal. Instead of opening the boom, he started sharing theories about the cause of the drought. According to him, sangomas from the Drakensberg area had consulted with iNkosazana-yamanzi, a mermaid-like deity in Zulu spirituality who controls rainfall and good harvests.According to the inkosazana, in 2016 we were being punished for not having a proper cleansing ceremony for the blood of Ilembe (King Shaka) in the bicentennial year of his building of the Zulu Empire. Also, we were being punished for veering away from our traditional cultural practices: maidens are losing their virginity outside of wedlock, we are allowing abominations such as abortion to go on unabated and so on.I wanted to ask him why all and sundry were being punished by the inkosazana - Batswana, AmaXhosa, English and Shona, and what Zulu cultural practices had to do with Karel in the Free State who has a maize field and is also waiting desperately for rain.But it was a hot day and I was in a hurry to enjoy a Hansa draught with a mate from Durban and I didn't want to get caught in a maze of circular logic. His parting shot, though, was to sigh and lament the fact that Zulu children don't even play a game called ucabhayiyane, which is about dancing in the rain in their birthday suits. Apparently that brings about more rain.I wanted to ask him how that would work out for Zulu kids who live in an estate in Bryanston but, again, that ice-cold beer was waiting. At least now we all know who to blame for the drought last year: those bloody Zulus who won't strip naked and play in the rain.What the F is wrong with a little swearing?During my walk in the rain I also thought about the first tropical storm I ever experienced. That one was called Domonia, in 1984. It was my first year of high school at Inkamana, in Vryheid. It was so bad we didn't even go to school almost the whole week, even though the walk from the dorms to the school was hardly 250m.It was a terrible time for us newbies. Bored boarding school seniors have unlimited ways of entertaining themselves by initiating a bunch of helpless 12-year-olds.And then I started thinking about the absurdity of our aversion to being rained on. After all, we take showers every day, don't we?I remember sitting on the deck on a restaurant next to UShaka Marine World in Durban a few years back. A few bathers were enjoying a dip in the Indian Ocean. It started to rain. Without any sense of irony, folks ran out of the water for cover.But I'll have to say that my favourite rain story by far is an obviously fictional one. Apparently some fellow is caught in a storm while walking home. He runs into the nearest house. He finds an old woman standing in the middle of the room, holding her bare breast in her left hand, her right hand stretched out with a R10 note. Her husband is also standing there, holding a chamber pot behind his bum and an umbrella in the other hand. Fearing he'd strayed into the house of madmen, the chap runs into the next house and tells them what he's seen."Oh no. They're not insane, just both mute and deaf. It's sign language. She is saying to him 'Here's R10. Go buy some milk' and he is saying, 'Are you sh-ttin' me? Can't you see it's raining?'" Follow the author of this article, Ndumiso Ngcobo, on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo