A tiny frog floated inanimately in the plunge pool, shaded by a canopy of leaves.Another was alive, for now, happily treading water in the outlet.Of course our two little girls were enthralled by the spectacle taking place at the Mount Grace Hotel and Spa.Was Sun City's R1-billion facelift worth it? It was a true-life depiction of the jump-or-adjust analogy. You know. if a frog is put suddenly into boiling water, it will jump out, but if it is put in cold water that is slowly heated, it will not realise the danger and will stay there until it cooks.The frogs had likely arrived before the oh-so-efficient heat pump was turned on to warm the private pool attached to our room.We removed the unfortunate one and joined the oblivious one, happily splashing around, thinking how nice it would be in winter.The harsh sun is blocked out by the leaves of privacy trees, which also hide views of other people, though not the squeals of another family in a nearby room.The pools were made for two adults, three if you're adventurous. But the girls loved the communal dip, the view from the edge of the mountain and the warm water.It is all part of the adjustments made by this retreat in the Magaliesberg, recently redeveloped to accommodate families - shock horror for those who loved the quiet haven for couple's spa getaways. Still, it has evolved with us.Our previous visit was a decade ago, without our attachments.Now there is a manned kids' club, which is a great idea. Ages three and up will be happily, safely occupied with puzzles, books, a bike track, jungle gym and heaps of toys. There is foosball and Wii, Playstation for older ones and giant bean bags which I tested for comfort.A teenager could easily become a permanent fixture here. There is little escape from smaller children, but babysitters are available for a fee.</img> Veradya Chetty, 4, makes the most of the Mount Grace's new, kid-friendly vibes. Image: SHANTHINI NAIDOOVeradya Chetty, 4, makes the most of the Mount Grace's new, kid-friendly vibes. Image: SHANTHINI NAIDOOThe food and hospitality have also changed to suit the newly allowed invasion - now including a low buffet table with plasticware and those horrible sausages and nuggets that some kids demand. There are healthier, delicious options available from the general buffet of the revamped Twist restaurant.It's elegant and modern but I would suggest a rethink of the open dessert table since sugar addicts with grubby fingers think this is an invitation to touch and taste everything. And the fancy cutlery and crockery should be removed from the tables to avoid bankruptcy and annoyed waiters.Lucky for some, the la carte Rambling Vine is still for adults only.Breakfast is a wonder of waffles, clotted cream and honey or sprinkles. There is an egg station with trimmings, sweet and savoury, and most importantly, sparkling wine for mother's sanity when the kids want one of everything.The short people enjoyed the rides on golf carts, the many cold and hot pools dotted around the property, and went to bed early. There's a pull-out sofa bed and a camp cot for younger ones who need imprisonment.Parents get a king bed or the pull-out bed, depending on the division of power.The couples we saw did not seem to mind the chaos that comes with children, perhaps foreseeing their future.It is all about adapting or jumping, after all. Plan your trip THINGS TO DO: The Black Horse Estate, a minute away from the Mount Grace, is a must-visit in the Magaliesberg. The menu is small but good and a fun beer-tasting lets you try eight of their brews, including one with strawberry. Go for the terraced garden and paddock, which are a landscaped green wonder.The spa at the Mount Grace is wonderful. The flotation pool, which I found crowded, and a reflexology walk which takes you through a pebbled rivulet to a woody enclave that you can hide in, are for unlimited use if you book (super-amazing) treatments.RATES: From R1,800 per standard room per night to R4,000 for a luxury room with pool.CONTACT: 014-577-5600 or marriott.com Naidoo was a guest of the African Pride Mount Grace Country House &amp; Spa