You qualified as an electronic engineer and turned professional entertainer in 2010. Have your skills as an engineer now gone to waste?Not at all. I use my engineering skills on a daily basis. Engineering is very analytical and a lot of analysis is needed behind the scenes when creating specific illusions.Why it's tough to be a magician in the digital age: Mo MagicWhere did you get the ideas for this new show?I'm driven by the Japanese concept of kaizen which means "making changes for the better". I was really inspired by the magic shows I saw in January in Las Vegas that motivated me to raise my game. I decided to come back and put on a show that South Africans will say is incredible.What's the difference between this and the last show?To start with I've added a variety of visual artists; there's an opening act on a hoop, for example, as well as a musician. So although people are booking to see me they are getting a full theatre production with large-scale illusion and brand-new acts. The show projects the message that life is beautiful and there are moments of wonder every day - be open to seeing them and our lives will be more joyful.You've performed around the world, had your own TV show and sell out all over the country. What sets you apart from other South African magicians?I've only been at it on a full time basis for seven years - it's been overwhelming. I attribute my success to my passion and determination to bring wonder and astonishment to my audiences. I get involved in every aspect of my show, from the props, to the marketing, to the choreography. I consider myself an ambassador for the art of magic.Which country has the most "challenging" audiences?The Chinese. They get very excited and want to touch and feel everything and to challenge you. They don't have an understanding of how theatre works so they are very vocal. The first time I performed I got a bit of a surprise but I adapt easily and was able to go with the flow.'Keeping Up With The Kandasamys' will make you fall in love with Indian township lifeAre there differences between local and international audiences?My main objective when I perform is to connect and interact with my audience - I don't just want to perform a series of tricks. In the States I performed for fellow magicians and immediately brought up the fact that I was from South Africa and then changed rands into dollars. Making it personal makes it magical.Most awkward on-stage moment?At a corporate event the person I called on stage was a little tipsy and she became very touchy-feely with me. I said: "I can see you are interested in another kind of magic," and sent her back to her seat.Is there a phrase that defines you?This is it: I'm doing the best I can with what I have where I am and trusting the universe to handle the details. 'Moments of Wonder' is at the Elizabeth Sneddon Theatre, UKZN Durban campus, from March 9 to 12; and at the Hexagon Theatre, Pietermaritzburg, March 30 to April 1. Book through Computicket. This article was originally published in The Times.