ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)This is your month and the planets want you smiling. Your health is fabulous, your energies are bouncing and you're wondering what to do with the extra hours you've discovered. You' re happy to adjust your focus where it's required. How about volunteering for something meaningful. Your energies are clamouring to make a difference. Prosperity is close by. Share your good fortune.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)It may not feel like it, but you're preparing for great things. This is the storm before the calm. So if there's chaos and drama, good. Start making big plans. The planets are peculiar until mid-May but however they're doing it, they're making way for change. Everyone knows how uncomfortable you are with transformation, but that doesn't mean you can escape it. Let your life be different.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Love is very complicated. All your love planets are moving in reverse, while your mind has wandered off on a journey of its own. Do you even know what you want? Either way, no point trying to fix anything now. Your world is deranged until mid May. Sure, have some fun but remember that your sense of humour is not the same as anyone else's. Tuesday is a good day to make amends.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)If it wasn't for that fragile body, you'd be ruling the world. Get some rest and eat some greens. Treat your body as though it's the most precious item in your universe. But stop rescuing everybody else before you've swallowed a single vitamin. Now that you've taken care of yourself, have a look at finances. There's renewed courage here and fabulous instincts. You can make some real money now.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Asking yourself how the world has managed to cope without your extraordinary input? That's the spirit. You came to motivate and amuse. Here's your chance to haul out your bag of tricks and get busy. If it's applause you want, it's coming. Your fabulous gifts are in demand and people are willing to pay for them. This is no time to start panicking about not being good enough.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)It's not that progress is slow. It's more that nothing is happening as you anticipated. Or hoped. And isn't that fantastic? You're discovering there are many ways to peel an orange, always with a great result. Look at the career, which has exciting plans of its own. Are you ready for something new? Too bad if you're not. The planets of aggression, activity, passion and creativity are standing by.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)You've fallen in love 15 times in the past hour. And you're wondering why your heart is lying on the floor in 1000 pieces. Yes, it's wonderful to be loving but choose the recipient of your heart with a little more care. There's no rush. As you know, the most important love affair is the one with yourself. All the rest are simply passing through. Lust, however, is alive and well. Have some fun.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Emotions are quiet but more powerful than ever. Find an outlet. Scream in your car. Hit a pillow. Now rethink your feelings. Remember, emotion is not the same as love. Emotion flips up and down. Love is steadfast, irrespective of behaviour. No need to make any declarations yet, but you do need to know how you feel. Remember, you can always feel something else. It takes discipline, but it's possible.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Whatever it is that's bothering you, put it down. It's relaxation time. You need to restore lost vigour and rediscover your enthusiasm. Your problems won't disappear while you look the other way, but they'll wait until you're ready for another round. How about some travel? Or a game with the kids? Have you forgotten how it feels to be young and in love with life? Go find yourself.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)Get your act together, because from next week the planets lose the plot. Delays, confusions, misdirected messages will begin to plague you and derail your plans. Get yourself organised now. If the rules are in place, no amount of cosmic jostling can throw them off course. Your Capricorn stubbornness and determination will keep you moving. Don't pay any attention to advice either.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Isn't this strange? Just as you start to get what you thought you wanted, you no longer care whether it arrives or not. Not that you should stop the process, but you might pause to consider that some things happen whether you choose them or not. Sometimes your best option is to get out of your own way, and literally let nature take its course. The love life needs some consideration - and effort.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)The goddess of all things bright and beautiful is smoothing the way. You couldn't be happier. You're being handed a few days to indulge. Love is your biggest issue. Do you still want it? Are you tired of rescuing everyone else at the expense of your own needs? Say NO. Enjoy the power of being able to choose and make it your own. There's no better time. You'll love yourself no matter what you do.