Such is the rivalry between the Mdantsane clubs, this is tantamount to treason, like dumping Liverpool for Manchester United. The decision had a significant impact on Mapimpi's career. It kick-started his consistent run with the Border Bulldogs and taught him a life lesson in the process."Sometimes you need to learn not to listen to what people say, look after yourself and your interests. A person could have been a Winter Rose fan who doesn't like Swallows ... but they didn't know about your problems and how you get by in life. I know people were talking but I didn't pay attention to them because I knew what I wanted," Mapimpi said. Crusaders cruise past Cheetahs to stretch unbeaten run "To be fair, there were unfulfilled promises by Winter Rose in terms of employment opportunities. There were empty promises and I wanted to make something out of my rugby career and make sure I had something to show for my work when I went home in the festive season."Having taken the scenic route to Super Rugby through an extended apprenticeship with the Border Bulldogs, Mapimpi steeled himself with the resolve that's currently getting him through the choppy waters the Southern Kings find themselves in. The Kings and the Cheetahs, whom Mapimpi will be joining for the Currie Cup in August, have an uncertain Super Rugby future. Having played without a contract and, later on, just match fees at the cash-strapped Bulldogs, the 26-year-old from Tsholomnqa has already dealt with hardship in his fledgling career and is at peace with his move to Bloemfontein. It may have been informed by his struggles at club level where he had to be selfish to succeed. "I can't be panicking over something I have absolutely no control over. I may have signed for the Cheetahs but I know what they're going through. "By the time I signed for the Cheetahs, I was already aware of the Super Rugby issue and it doesn't come as a surprise. All I want to do is to play rugby and the rest will fall into place when it does," Mapimpi said."I've never been a person who expects much and all I want to do is to play as much as I can. While I may have goals, I'll let those deal with themselves because I need to play as many games as I can before I get to that hurdle. I'm a big believer in letting things happen on their own account and not forcing the issue."