Most supporters love seeing matches between the world s best, but there have only ever been two Davis Cup meetings between two of the conventional Big Four , with the most recent one coming in 2009. In an already bursting calendar, the Davis Cup is an easy event to skip, especially as there are no ranking points to be won. Thankfully, tennis s policy makers are waking up to the need for reform, and will vote on proposed changes at the ATP s AGM this year. So, what are the big changes that could happen?Make singles matches best of three setsIn this scenario, ties would most likely remain three-day events, but singles rubbers would become best of three sets to make playing the Davis Cup less of a physical strain for the players. Doing so would also be good for spectators, argues Britain s Davis Cup captain Leon Smith. For kids to come and watch two best-of-five set singles on a Friday or Sunday can be too much. Even die-hard tennis fans find nine or 10 hours pretty tough. There is the school of thought though that says matches become less dramatic if reduced from best-of-five to best-of-three sets. Change ties to two days instead of threeFor this to work the doubles would need to be played on the same day as two singles rubbers, something that would all but rule out a player competing in the doubles as well as the singles.Make Davis Cup every two yearsThis is an alteration that seems to make eminent sense in adding some lustre to the competition, and making it more attractive to the top players and consequently supporters and TV companies. Tomas Berdych, a former winner of the competition, is an advocate of making the Davis Cup every other year. Turn it into a World Cup of tennis at a neutral venueJohn McEnroe has been championing for a number of years a changed format where the semifinals take place at a neutral venue, with the final four nations competing for the trophy. Others have suggested that the whole competition should take place at a neutral venue with 16 teams competing over a short period of between a week or two weeks.Reduce the number of rubbers a player can compete inWhen Great Britain won the Davis Cup in 2015, Andy Murray played in 11 of the 12 rubbers that the team won en route to the title. This level of reliance on one player should be addressed.