This is according to ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize - a man widely tipped to become the party's deputy president if Cyril Ramaphosa wins the presidential race in December.The term "radical economic transformation" has become popular in the party with supporters of President Jacob Zuma and his preferred presidential candidate, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, employing it as their main campaign slogan.But critics of the term, including former president Kgalema Motlanthe, say it is meaningless as its proponents have never fully explained what they meant by it. Heavy hitters for latest Hlaudi hearingSome political analysts believe its use signals the Zuma faction's intentions to make the ANC more populist as its fights to prevent the loss of votes to the EFF and other left-leaning groups.Mkhize is supportive of the concept but says such transformation will not happen unless the party gets tough with underperformers and the corrupt in its ranks.He gave a detailed explanation of what it should entail in practical terms, adding that the ANC had to elect competent, "incorruptible" leaders capable of making "mature decisions" to make it work.He said such leaders should also be ready to enhance accountability in the party."For a capable state, you need a capable ruling party and a capable leadership."The key issue with the leadership should be based on a degree of leadership experience which will be able to help the party take mature decisions, which will also make sure people can make informed choices."The former KwaZulu-Natal premier said the next ANC leadership should prioritise a professionalised public service where there would be no space for mediocrity, which is often cited as one of the shortcomings of the current administration."We need to encourage professionalism within the civil service where the focus is on outcomes and impact. And also creativity ... and action against poor delivery and complacency and mediocrity ... there has to be action. So that the state in terms of efficiency and effectiveness is respected from that point of view."That is what constitutes a mandate ... an electoral mandate that people give to the government."They expect this and this ... in particular areas of service delivery. There should be consequences if it is not fulfilled," he said.For Mkhize, radical economic transformation is not merely about redistribution of assets, as suggested by other ANC leaders. He said there needed to be "creativity" in ideas on how to stimulate the economy. The biggest problem with factions is the fact that they create a breeding ground for corruption and patronage Mkhize said the ANC needed to tighten up legislation on land redistribution and beef up the government's capacity to tackle land reform.He has also proposed that a law be crafted to allow for the establishment of more retail banks, to break the monopolisation of this sector by the big four financial institutions.Radical economic transformation, he added, would also not work without the government generating interest for investment in sectors that were often neglected.The state would also need to find ways to empower experienced black professionals to establish their own companies and push for innovative ideas in the technology space."They should invest in areas where we need growth: small businesses and rural activities. Obviously it needs government participation, so [ we need to look at] what incentives will make people go into those areas. You must be able to get incentives for those people who invest in rural areas etcetera ... maybe tax incentives," he said.Mkhize said investment levels would only improve if the political environment inspired confidence in the financial markets. Small-town fight over the big voteHe said the ANC also needed to improve its management of internal differences.Mkhize said the ANC would always find it difficult to root out corruption and patronage in government unless factionalism was dismantled."I think the other thing we need to do is correct the politics. Unity of purpose within the political party is what drives a lot of delivery and ensures clean governance."The issue of unity and the issue of levels of discipline, where everyone knows the party is about servicing people ... the biggest problem of factions is the fact that it creates a breeding ground for corruption and patronage."Mkhize said the ANC needed to find ways to improve its management of disciplinary processes against leaders caught on the wrong side of the law.This, he said, should include the strengthening of its integrity commission, which was set up specifically to deal with errant leaders before their court cases are concluded. He said ANC leaders should be held to higher ethical standards than ordinary members of society."We need to come up with a mechanism [that] must be able to withstand the test of courts. We need to find a way to tighten [our processes]."Party discipline and ethical behaviour should rank higher for members of the party than it should be for normal society," he said.hunterq@sundaytimes.co.za