Every student has a special tale to tell, but the University of Pretoria has yielded some truly exceptional graduates. Quintine Mkhondo is only 19 but will graduate with a degree in actuarial science and financial mathematics four years after enrolling at the age of 15. He will walk to the university s podium on April 21 after endless hard work and constant perseverance . Mkhondo will possibly be the youngest at the graduation ceremony but he is used to this. He matriculated at the age of 14 from Hoedspruit Independent College in Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga. I started school in 2003 when I was six and when I got to Grade 4 my teachers realised I was doing far better than my peers and pushed me to Grade 6 instead of me going to Grade 5. The same thing happened when I passed Grade 8, they placed me in Grade 10 and I excelled until I matriculated in Grade 12. It was tough but I managed to do it in 10 years of schooling. But when I got to varsity it was challenging, said Mkhondo.Before he could enrol for actuarial science he had to complete a one-year bridging course, because he got only 78% for mathematics in matric and needed 80% to study towards his degree. Like most teenagers, Mkhondo admits to enjoying time out with friends, going to the gym and occasionally partying. He also has an interest in girls something that led him astray when he experienced his first heartbreak. He ended up failing two modules in the first semester of his third year in 2016. That was the first time I experienced such a challenge and understood failing, which almost led me to depression. This also cost me my bursary for my honours. But my friends and family supported me and helped me get over it and I was back on my study role which was more important to me. I like girls and it s hard because the girls here are older [than me] but none of them know this until they see my student card, said Mkhondo, who is pursuing his honours degree this year.Another exceptional story at the university is that of blind cricketer Kenneth Mabela. Next week he will graduate with a degree in music after representing South Africa at the T20 Blind Cricket World Cup in India in January.</img> Quintine Mkhondo, 19, will graduate with a degree in actuarial science and financial mathematics. Image: MOELETSI MABEQuintine Mkhondo, 19, will graduate with a degree in actuarial science and financial mathematics. Image: MOELETSI MABEBoth his parents are blind and Mabela, 26, from Soshanguve, took six years to complete his degree because the university had never had to accommodate a blind music student before. I had to work twice as hard because music is a visual art that entailed reading music, but I had to use my recorder and later teach myself how to play certain instruments, unlike others who could read the notes and get it, Mabela said. I am proud to be graduating as I am the first one from my family to get a degree, which is a huge accomplishment for me as I will see my dream of being a DJ and a blues singer come to life. The university will bestow degrees on 13,000 students. This year will also see the largest group of black women postgraduates an unprecedented 1,453, constituting almost a third of the total number of postgraduates. Of these women, 198 are from the Gordon Institute of Business Science. A total of 186 doctorates, 1,376 master s and 2,816 honours degrees will also be awarded over the coming weeks.Vice-chancellor and principal Professor Cheryl de la Rey congratulated the new graduates. Achieving an academic degree does not come easy, she said. It requires persistence, dedication and hard work. Our graduates can be justifiably proud of reaching this milestone. For 25-year-old identical twins Imtiaz and Raiz Ebrahim, from Louis Trichardt in Limpopo, graduating from medical school is their biggest childhood dream . Identical in everything including being in the same class since Grade 1, they are in Polokwane doing their internships and will graduate on May 5. We were born five to 10 minutes apart and have done everything together, including playing the same sports, and we even like the same things, said Imtiaz.mbeleg@sundaytimes.co.za