Semi-retired superyacht captains Phil Wade and Anthony Just, both based in Spain, have so far sent 18 students across the world to rub shoulders with ultra-high-net-worth tycoons. In some cases students had never been in an airport before, let alone aboard a floating palace.Wade and Just say the programme was born out of a desire to help youngsters in their home country, particularly those who would otherwise be excluded from the maritime world. We felt it would be great to give young people an opportunity like that which was given to us when we were young, said Just, who grew up in Kalk Bay and runs his own charter company in Majorca, which now also serves as the base of the Marine Inspirations empowerment programme.To their delight the pair discovered an untapped willingness among superyacht owners and captains to donate funds to help youngsters advance their maritime careers. Sponsored air tickets, accommodation and access to some of the world s most glamorous vessels are just some of the perks awaiting programme participants, who are selected from among the ranks of the Simon s Town School Lawhill Maritime Centre.And it s not just overseas perks. Wade and Just spent this week working on an 8m training yacht at False Bay Yacht Club another donation from a benefactor. The yacht will be used by Lawhill students for practical navigational training.Just said the youngsters had exceeded all expectations, charming their superyacht hosts and in some cases even securing invitations to return as trainee crew members. They [the hosts] were all blown away. The students are our best ambassadors. Lawhill head Debbie Owen said it was almost impossible to put into words what the Marine Inspirations experience meant. For many the experience is one of many firsts from leaving the country and travelling abroad for the first time, to their first time in an airport ... not to mention spending time with people of different nationalities and experiencing the superyacht industry in a very special and unique way, all while being mentored by some of the best people in the industry, she said.Khayelitsha-raised Saluse Cake Tsengiwe, 19, who travelled to Spain as part of last year s programme intake, said: I m the first person in my family to travel abroad and it s a totally different world. Gershwyn Poole, 17, another Lawhill student, said he had felt a connection with the sea from a young age. It was totally astonishing to see all the yachts in Palma. We just don t see boats like this in South Africa and they are much more appealing to work on than cargo ships, he said.