The Tsotsi star has been in Los Angeles for the past few months for what the industry calls "pilot season"."Pilot season is when producers cast pilot episodes for new series they want to air in the fall [autumn]. I have been doing this since January and it ends now in April," Pheto told the Sunday Times this week.The casting frenzy attracts actors from across the world, all with dreams of the big time. Most brave long queues, only to face rejection.But Pheto is receiving star treatment.The 36-year-old is signed with talent management agency Paradigm, which represents Hollywood stars such as Antonio Banderas, Laurence Fishburne and Jada Pinkett-Smith. That s our girl! Terry Pheto wins top prize at UK film awards"Fortunately I have a great team so I never have to queue or wait. I just get given a time, show up, do my part and leave, thanks to the great agency I am with. I have also signed with an amazing manager," said Pheto.This week the actress joined the cast of the long-running soapie The Bold and the Beautiful for lunch at the home of the show's executive producer and head writer, Bradley Bell, in Malibu, California. Dressed in a Vera Wang summer dress, which she paired with nude Christian Louboutin heels and gold Chanel earrings and sunglasses, she was joined by actor John McCook (who plays Eric Forrester), Pierson Fode (Thomas Forrester), Ashleigh Brewer (Ivy Forrester) and others. They were treated to a three-course meal by Bell's chef, Emily Baird.McCook, 72, was delighted to catch up with Pheto as the two hadn't seen each other since 2011, when Pheto played the role of heart surgeon Malaika Maponya in the soap.He gushed like a proud father: "Isn't she just beautiful? Such a great heart, this girl. You need to come back to us, Terry. You know we love you," he told her.Pheto's time on The Bold and the Beautiful was one of several international roles for her. She also appeared in Goodbye Bafana, A United Kingdom, and the mini-series Madiba with Fishburne."I can't say much about the castings but I can say that I am literally waiting for the ink to dry. Modimo omoholo (God is great)," Pheto said.