The latest dent to the share price is certain to worry Barclays plc investors, who have been watching the share price of Barclays Africa Group slide since the beginning of the year - rendering it the worst-performing banking stock on the JSE so far this year. A weak pound fuelled by Brexit in June last year, a stronger rand and the alleged involvement of Barclays Africa Group in the rand price-fixing saga are some factors that have weighed on its share price. This week, Barclays Africa Group was also one of seven financial institutions in South Africa to have their ratings downgraded by S&amp;P Global to junk, in line with the country rating. While the impact of South Africa's credit downgrade and the consequent downgrade of Barclays Africa Group has yet to be fully felt, banking sector analysts this week said it was now a question of timing over when Barclays plc would whittle down its 50.1% share in Barclays Africa Group, as opposed to whether the bank would decide not to sell.Brad Preston, the chief investment officer at Mergence Investment Managers, said Barclays plc would still want to see the transaction finalised, although it was likely to tread cautiously."The delays in the sale have now given them volatility, a long-term weaker rand and higher bond yields, but they will want to get it done ... they will not want to do anything close to risk. They would want the market to calm down first," he said.Barclays plc said previously in a statement that part of the reason for divesting from Africa was the burden of carrying capital to cover 100% of risk at its subsidiary operations, while retaining only 62% of profits. The London bank is eyeing a small stake of about 20% in its Africa subsidiary.Barclays plc said last week it was negotiating the sale of its Zimbabwe operations - which, along with those in Egypt, are not part of Barclays Africa Group - to Malawi-based First Merchant Bank. A banking sector analyst, who declined to be named, said the impact of South Africa's credit rating downgrade on the sale was "neutral", as a decision had been taken before the current wave of events by Barclays plc to exit its Africa operations."What changes are timelines, but that's a transaction which is happening in full force. The day-to-day operations and positive assurances from management are in order to make a safe exit from the parent company. The credit ratings downgrade is unlikely to impact on the separation from the parent company," he said.But who will make a bid for the British bank's operations in Africa given the current turmoil remains unclear. It has almost been a year since its 12.2% stake was snapped up in May last year by South African investors and international money managers in what was widely seen as a "discount sale". The sale was at a share price of R126 - lower than the current share price hovering at R135.Nothing has emerged from possible suitors, such as former Barclays plc CEO Bob Diamond, who was said to have been interested in March last year when Barclays plc first announced its intention to sell. Diamond was said to be courting investors including US private-equity giant Carlyle Group for the Africa stake.In January, the Dubai-based Abraaj Group expressed interest in the stake. There is no official comment about any formal talks being under way with either party.Adrian Cloete, a portfolio manager at PSG Wealth, said it was likely the British bank would want an institutional investor as opposed to another international bank."They are certain to place the stake with institutional investors, as any international bank will face the same challenges as Barclays plc. One must own between 15% and 20%. If anything above that, you have to carry the risk," he said.Barclays Africa Group operates in 12 African countries namely South Africa, Botswana, Zambia, Mozambique, Namibia, Mauritius, Seychelles, Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, Nigeria and Ghana. Its Absa flagship in South Africa accounts for 80% of group revenue.