Ideally, preparing your hair for winter should start at the beginning of autumn, when the temperatures start changing, to gently ease the hair into a more intensive routine. African hair is more fragile than Caucasian hair and natural hair is particularly difficult to manage, as it s very curly, coarse, and breaks easily with any excessive traction even combing. Therefore, hair requires some extra care when the temperatures drop to fight elevated brittleness, dehydration, and a lacklustre appearance.Follow these tips to keep your locks looking gorgeous all winter long:According to Linda Gieskes, Founder of Suki Suki Naturals: To get your hair whether natural or relaxed winter-ready, I would suggest getting a trim first, if you have split ends. Trimming your hair will reinforce and strengthen it, so that it does not break unnecessarily due to the dryness of the winter months. The hottest African hair trends: '2017 is all about pushing the envelope'The two most important things to remember when it comes with caring for your hair are moisture and protein. Moisture keeps hair supple, improves the elasticity of the hair curl, and decreases the chances of coarse, unmanageable hair. Stock up on rich, butter- and oil-based products that will allow you to seal in moisture and shield off dryness, Gieskes says. Although natural hair can absorb quite a bit of moisture, it s also crucial to not over moisturise the hair, as it ends up looking limp, being weighed down, and breaking as a result of being too elastic. Another important step in the care of natural hair is conditioning. Not only is hair left softer, intensely nourished, and frizz-free, but applying a conditioner after every shampoo helps to seal the hair cuticle and retain moisture. Hair should be washed and conditioned every week or alternated with a co-wash every other week if hair is extremely dry. In choosing a good conditioner look out for the following ingredients: plant oils such as olive oil and argan oil; amino acids (adds strength); panthanol (a vitamin that promotes hair growth); and polymers (moisturising agents), says Betito Ebengo, former head stylist at ORS South Africa.Although the movement towards natural hair has been strong in recent years, protective styles such as braids and weaves should not be seen as anti-natural . These styles greatly aid in the care of hair, especially in winter. Putting your hair in a protective style, like twists, braids, or cornrows, will ensure that you retain low hair manipulation and prevent tangles, which lead to breakage, Gieskes says. But don t fall into the trap of staying with a protective style for too long: keep them in for maximum of two-and-a-half months. This article was originally published in the March issue of S Mag, a free lifestyle magazine distributed with the Sowetan newspaper.