A minute before celebrating a victory that would have breathed life into their weak fight for the Absa Premiership, Amakhosi were left heartbroken by a late Aubrey Modiba strike deflected by Tsepo Masilela into his own net.That goal and this draw hurt both these clubs' title ambitions. But Amakhosi were more dejected as they looked good for three points with the league their only shot at silverware this season.In his 300th start for Chiefs, Siphiwe Tshabalala showed there is plenty of life in the 32-year-old especially as leader and playmaker. Komphela admits a trophy for Chiefs this season may now be in other team s handsHe was the conductor and lead singer of the Chiefs orchestra. He not only created chances but also scored them, showing why he has been given the armband. After he was substituted, just before the hour mark, SuperSport were able to pin Chiefs back and steal a point.Tshabalala scored his second in the first half in fine style, calmly controlling Ramahlwe Mphahlele's cross before firing a shot that left Reyaad Pieterse flat-footed. Steve Komphela left his technical area to applaud his skipper on the other side of the field.That goal gave Chiefs the lead again after Mandla Masango had equalised for Matsatsantsa a Pitori. The former Chiefs midfielder sidestepped Mulomowandau Mathoho before hitting a brilliant curler that young Bruce Bvuma had no chance of stopping.The stands were dominated by Chiefs fans who used to cheer for Masango two seasons ago. But that felt like a lifetime ago as Masango celebrated with his new teammates while his old teammates looked to have been stripped of the mettle they had in their march to be crowned league champions in 2014/15. Even the rain calmed down a bit.The heavens, which threatened rain for the most part of the day, had opened up after Tshabalala put Amakhosi ahead by lobbing over Pieterse, who was way off his line.That goal gave Chiefs the much-needed confidence to bounce back from back-to-back defeats that saw them eliminated from the Nedbank Cup and then lose ground in the league race.There was no making amends as Chiefs' slump continued.These clashes between the top five clubs might not decide where the league is going but they have the power to decide where it's not going. As things stand, the league isn't going to the blue side of Pretoria nor anywhere in Soweto.It will take a miracle and a measure of serious capitulation from all three of Mamelodi Sundowns, Cape Town City and Bidvest Wits for SuperSport or Chiefs to win this trophy.