TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Not a good week to be waltzing around in your diamond tiara. In fact, put it away somewhere safe. Then burn white candles to clear the energy around you. Most importantly, trust your own instincts, they're better than most. This is not the time to be consulting others on irrelevant issues. By Thursday the fog will have cleared and you'll begin to understand what the weirdness was about.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Much as you love the uncertainty of the high-risk deal, you're far less keen on disappointing results. Look for safer places to take that adventurous urge, and call in the professionals to deal with the scarier details. There's romance around, so keep your eyes open or you'll miss it. It doesn't have to mean an end to the madness, but it might mean finding a less destructive way to have a good time.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Go somewhere gorgeous with your lover and leave your laptop at home. If a relative tries to manipulate you into staying, go anyway. Your world will still be there when you get back. If you're alone, find someone nice to play with. It won't be hard. Health and beauty are in an up-cycle. Money comes through others, so ask and you will receive. Remind yourself how much you deserve. Guilt is so last year.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Partnerships return to normal and for the first time in ages you can speak without tripping over your tongue. Use this gift well, bearing in mind that the rest of the world would welcome some direction. Just for this week, you get to be a world leader. Be generous with your wisdom. Resist the urge to toy with people's minds, or they'll give you a hard time in return. Choose your words with care.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Family driving you crazy? Ignore them when they're being petty, and make sane suggestions when they're not. Your planets improve on Wednesday, shifting your focus to money. Play your cards impressively and you'll get some. Yes, you'll have to work harder for a while, but that won't bother you once the results start rolling in. Love is fairly hopeless for now, so find ways to love yourself.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Sadly, there is no Sir Galahad poised to carry you off on a white horse. No Aphrodite to teach you the secrets of eternal love. Fantasy is fine as a source of creativity, but when you start sitting on the doorstep with your suitcase packed, it's time to get a grip. The lesson is that ordinary people are magical too; faults and all. Try appreciating yourself just the way you are. Others will too.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)This is the week for sulks. And since few of your efforts are likely to bear fruit, you might as well resign yourself to lying about on the couch. Get someone to massage those beautiful feet, so the week won't be a total loss. Hold off on the gambling, though, it's pointless. One thing you can always do is listen. Not much of that is happening now, so you'll be a huge hit with the opposite sex.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Just because your investments have been staggering about like a loon doesn't mean this is a good time to pull out. Quite the reverse. If you can hang in until Thursday, you'll have a better idea of where you're going. After that, reassess. If still in doubt, take someone gorgeous out to lunch and drink bubbly until you feel better. But no wild actions. Stay cool. Trust yourself to make fabulous decisions.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)What was that? You're so stressed you don't think you can get through another day? So what are you going to do about it? Push yourself to the point of collapse so you can legitimately take time off? Or remind yourself that you deserve happiness as much as anyone. Besides, the planets are going nowhere interesting until early next week. Meanwhile, try delegation. It's a marvellous institution.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Retreat is your word for the week. Hide is a better one. Nothing good can come of your attempts to stick your oar in where it doesn't belong. You might focus on cleaning the house or completing a project. How about a spiritual retreat? In short, stay away from the world. It can't cope with you any more than you can cope with it. Don't even think about re-emerging before Thursday. No rush.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)More changes leave you feeling as if the floor is shifting beneath you. Well, it's not and there's no need for hysterics. This is the kind of adventure you secretly long for. After all, don't you feel the tiniest bit under-utilised? Weren't you destined for greater things? And have you finally found the courage to seize the day? Not yet? Wait for Thursday to welcome in your new life. Expect a miracle.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Fighting with the bosses again? If you must, you must. In which case, make the most of every opportunity to be heard. But rehearse your speeches before you make them. It's important that this doesn't turn into a battle of wills because if it does, you'll lose. For once, put the ego down and figure out what would make you all happy in the long term. Then let them win a couple of points.