Curwin Bosch: The classy rotator between fullback and flyhalf has hardly put a foot wrong so far this season. The former schoolboy prodigy hasn't looked out of place in a high-pressure environment. Going into this weekend's fixtures, Bosch was the second highest contributor in the competition with 54 points.His deft hands and speed off the mark have made him a handful in attack, while his kicking, whether out of hand or off the tee, has been as prodigious as it's been unerring. Critics will point to his defence but he has, above all, composure, a commodity bestowed on few players at his age.Lukhanyo Am: The former Southern Kings midfielder has swimmingly taken to life with the Sharks. He has struck up a formidable centre combination with Andre Esterhuizen. Even Lions star Rohan Janse van Rensburg this week sang their praises. Am has played in different positions in the backline but there is a school of thought that suggests he operates best at inside centre. That is unlikely to happen given the talent at the disposal of the Sharks' coach.Jean-Luc Du Preez: This redoubtable backrower, who played for the SA Under-20 in the 2015 World Championship, was selected in the Springbok group that faced the Barbarians on the end-of-year tour last year. Du Preez is breathtakingly uncomplicated. He is versatile, takes the ball up with forceful intent, and his defence is zealously unremitting. Simply put, when he is on or around the ball, his impact is felt.Wilco Louw: The Stormers' tighthead prop is built like a battleship and his movement is as deliberate, assured and at times as destructive. At age-group level, Louw weighed in at 130kg, but he is a little lighter now. He, however, remains very difficult to manipulate at scrum time.The former Boland Craven Week representative moved to the Bulls in 2013 making 12 appearances for their victorious under-19 team. A knee injury has held him back but he has made a strong start to this Super Rugby season. Just ask the Bulls about their experience at Newlands on the opening weekend.Courtnall Skosan: If you have reservations about Skosan, speak to Lions' backline coach Swys de Bruin. He openly gushes about the winger's virtues, highlighting a sound work ethic as one of the player's foundations. Skosan is right up there on the try-scoring charts after dotting down four times against the Reds. He gets himself in the right place at the right time and he's reaping the rewards.Robert Du Preez: The flyhalf is bringing maturity to the soft and rugged touches he possesses in equal measure. He is capable of giving gainline advantage but he is equally adept at getting the ball behind the defence with his boot. It is no coincidence going into the latest round of matches that the Stormers had scored more tries than the Chiefs, the Highlanders and the Blues. Perhaps even more reassuringly, Du Preez has kept his head when the team have been under pressure.