But what makes a good brunch spot? Is it the wide selection of breakfast choices to suit the pickiest eaters or the most hung over? Is it the perfect atmosphere that makes the most of the weather, allowing you to show off your favourite pair of brunching sunnies? Or is the fantastic selection of caffeinated beverages, three kinds of garnished water and juice, squeezed while you wait, the deciding factor?Breezebrock could be the answer to everything.Nestled in the dilapidated-in-places student and artist neighbourhood of Brixton, Breezeblock is a stone's throw away from Joburg's less famous tower.Joburgers, make food the focus of your next weekend escapeStep inside to be overwhelmed by the beauty of the interior, curated to make the most of the wall of glass that leads to the restaurant's courtyard. Breezeblock's design is an ode to the '70s with plants, panelling, pressed ceilings, paintings, mid-century furniture, tiled murals and the occasional spot of paint.Justin Brett designed every inch of the place with the same levity he employs when creating his watercolour paintings. It all makes the main event - the food - even more exciting.It is not often that you come across a breakfast menu with such generosity of spirit, with every dish having a myriad of flavour combinations.Why make one oven-baked "Mepple Pancake" when you can have a choice of four versions instead, with different topping combos ranging from the more traditional berries and mascarpone to savoury options, including bacon, roast tomatoes and herb cream cheese.Even classic favorites have been given a spruce up - omelettes are filled with chopped ham, Parmesan shavings and parsley pesto. The creamy "Tummy Warmer" oats gets topped with slices of spicy cinnamon apple (oats can be made with soya milk if you're happily vegan).The "Breezeblock Specials" come into play for brunch. Tuck into a pile of freshness and flavour that is their "Huevos Rancheros" or dip your buttermilk toast - baked in-house - into perfectly spiced smoky aubergine and garlic, turmeric tomato sauce in the "Eggs Mizra".What's more, if your brunching compatriots are running late, there's a whole selection of snacks to tide you over - they're served all day.Or eat off the specials lunch menu. Try the sandwiches made with that in-house buttermilk and health bread served with massive potato wedges, a salad, or a selection of light meals (some priced at only R25).If your brunching companions don't show up at all, drop an Instagram post of yourself pointing to the raisin-free granola served with yogurt and seasonal fruit and say the you're taking "The Moral High Ground".</img>Breezebrock offers a wide selection of breakfasts to suit even the pickiest of eaters. Image: SuppliedBreezebrock offers a wide selection of breakfasts to suit even the pickiest of eaters. Image: SuppliedWhat to eat: Brunch choices are a personal and individual thing, but let's be honest, if you have the option of a pancake, always go for the pancake.What to drink: Your own favourite bottle of bubbles. It's brunch after all and since they don't have a liquor license you're encouraged to bring your own. They don't charge corkage. If you're avoiding alcohol or forget to bring some along they have nine different types of coffee preparations, fresh juice, and mugs of tea.Who you'll see: Foodies and the Instagram curious - it's only been open for two weeks. Those in the know are always first to go.Must-visit shop in the area: With Mayfair down the one side of the hill and Melville down the other you have your pick between scrumptious Indian food treats and bars with beats.Whatever you do don't: Expect fast food. As stated it's just opened and they still have a few kinks to work out, but it's worth the wait.Don't leave without: Tipping the waitress. Also, tell her she's doing a fantastic job. It's her first time working in a restaurant and we've never had a sweeter or more enthusiastic server.Address: 29 Chiswick Street, Brixton, Joburg. This article was originally published in The Times.