The SA Taxi Foundation Art Award has given artists the opportunity to have their work shown on taxis financed by SA Taxi Development Finance.This week the foundation awarded Banele Khoza, 22, a Swazi national now living in Pretoria, the main prize of R700,000, which includes R50,000 in cash. His five fellow finalists were Mashudu Nevhutalu, Lebohang Kganye, Duma Mtimkulu, Mpho Mokgadi and Jabu Nkomo. They each received an award to the value of R660,000 including R10,000 in cash. The prizes include production of the artists designs as decals, each to be carried by 10 taxis for a year.Their art is also on display for one month at Johannesburg s Lizamore &amp; Associates gallery, a partner of the SA Taxi Foundation.Khoza, a drawing and fine arts lecturer, said he was inspired by African masks. Being called African or identifying as African is a problematic identity as Africans don t share the same reality there s a vast difference between the countries within Africa. The internet has blanketed the world and offers one a global perspective. So identifying as anything has become a choice, he said.Khoza said that as an emerging artist he was thrilled to have his work shown in public. It is also an honour as I still use a taxi to get to work, he said. The taxis will be piercing spaces where my art is not easily accessible, in the CBD, townships and rural areas. Growing up in a small town, the visual vocab is learnt through billboards, television and the same signages each taxi carries. I believe the drawings that will be portrayed on the taxis will open a space where children and young adults can envision new possibilities. SA Taxi Foundation director Lishani Letchmiah said the awards helped to promote local art value chains. Most minibus taxi commuters are posting pictures and comments about the vibrant works of art on the selected minibus taxis. The impact of the art reaches steadily deeper into society, said Letchmiah.Kganye said his work was inspired by an earlier generation of his family. My work is about my maternal grandfather who moved from the homelands to the city to find work in the Transvaal. So the work that will be displayed on 10 taxis is about being at the same place at different times and not meeting. My grandfather passed away before I was born, but because he was the first person in my family to move to the city, everyone in the family has stories about my grandfather and that is what birthed the project, said Kganye.Through the use of colour, Nevhutalu created Person of Colour, defining all South Africans as vibrant and jovial people. My work speaks about South Africa as a very diverse country. Every day we interact with people who are very different from ourselves and all of us are very proud of who we are and where we come from, and having no bounds in expressing that, he said.Nevhutalu said art galleries were spaces that were not easily accessible for everyone and often viewed as places for the elite. What the SA Taxi Foundation Art Award competition seeks to do is take the art to the people who are on the streets every day. 