"Having pedicures may expose you to warts, athlete's foot, ingrown toenails, bacterial infection, nail deformities and, most commonly, fungal nail infection," says Maddocks.Gel nail applications in particular create the ideal environment for fungus to grow. Filing the nails down weakens the nail plate, and gel nail polish, which is sealed with heat from UV lights, creates a moist, dark and warm space on the nail.Most fungal infections appear as white, green or black spots."The medical term for fungal nail infection is onychomycosis. There is potential for fungal spores to be picked up in the salon from improperly disinfected equipment or from the pedicurist," says Maddocks. "Pedicurists are more susceptible to fungal infections because their hands are wet most of the time."Treating fungal toenail infections can be a slow, tedious and expensive process so it is important to catch it early. It takes three months to regrow a nail, but 18 months to rid it of infection."The salon might be immaculate and you might have picked up a fungal nail infection elsewhere, like the gym, swimming pool, yoga studio or bathroom," says Maddocks. "But the pedicure makes your nail more vulnerable and may cause an infection to spread."Maddocks suggests taking a regrowth break during winter to allow the nails to breathe again.PODIATRIST MEGAN MADDOCKS' TIPS FOR A SAFE PEDICURE If you have any skin or nail infections, avoid the salon so as not to infect others. Also, don't go if you have any open wounds, cuts or abrasions. Check that the pedicurist has washed her hands immediately before your treatment; ideally, pedicurists should wear gloves. Make sure the seats are wiped and cleaned between clients. Disinfection protocols may be rushed or neglected when the salon is busy. Pick a quieter time or speak up if you see a problem. Water in the foot baths should be fresh. Foot baths should be washed and disinfected between each client. If this process happens out of sight, ask. Reusable instruments should be disinfected between clients. Autoclave (heat and pressure) is the ideal but cold sterilisation with chemical solutions is effective if a quality product is used. Disposable items need to be discarded after a single use. Make sure your pedicurist doesn't cut or push back your cuticles too much. Cuticles are important as a barrier to prevent organisms from penetrating the skin. Have a break from a salon pedicure once or twice a year (winter is a good time) to let your nails grow out, to restore their natural properties and to treat any problems or infections.