Describe your brand, Mia M lange, in three words.Fine. Functional. Minimalistic.What's the story behind your company name?M lange means mixture or blend in French. It's also a type of yarn that is commonly used in the textile and fashion industries. It's typically made up of different kinds of fibres, or different coloured fibres, which are blended in a certain fixed ratio.When applied correctly, m lange yarn can be knitted or woven into a rich multi-coloured or multi-textured fabric. The idea behind the name "Mia M lange" arose out of a desire to create a collection of eclectic products, with a strong emphasis on the bountiful world of textiles. Meet the maker: Amanda du Plessis of Evolution ProductHow did you get into textiles?I studied textile design and majored in weaving.You're originally from Israel. Has living in SA influenced your work?I grew up in a multicultural home, so I don't really feel that I am from one place. South Africa has influenced my work, just as all the other places have. My initial decision to start making baskets was influenced by the ancient tradition of basket making in SA, and Africa as a whole. The shapes and colours of our products are often inspired by African basketry.You've travelled a lot. What three cities do you recommend visiting?Rome, Stockholm and Barcelona.Tell us about the materials you use in your work.We use 100% cotton rope, either in its natural colour or dyed into various colours.You feel strongly about empowering women. How do you implement this in your company?We hire women and teach them our very specific work skills. I believe in empowering and uplifting women, not only by creating jobs but by creating quality jobs where each employee is valued and proud to be a part of the team.I believe that as a society we must go back to appreciating craftsmanship and valuing crafters and manual labourers in the same way we value doctors, lawyers and professors. A sustainable society cannot have one without the other.</img> Baskets from the Mia M lange range. Image: SuppliedBaskets from the Mia M lange range. Image: SuppliedWhat is one defining aspect of South African design for you?Bold and deeply rooted in the African continent.A local designer you'd like to collaborate with, and what would you make with them?Laduma Ngxokolo of Maxhosa. I'd incorporate our coiled rope pieces into a few avant-garde knits.Visit miamelange.com.