What are some of the trends and style influences that we can expect to see in H&amp;M's new Conscious Exclusive collection?It is a contemporary collection made from conscious materials; it's designed to be worn at special events as well as everyday. It was created with inspiration from the human senses which is noticeable in the choice of materials and embellishments how they look, but also how they feel and sound.H&M's highly-anticipated new Conscious Exclusive collection hits Cape TownKey pieces for women are the dresses seen in a variety of silhouettes ranging from sheer ball gown styles to shorter embroidered cocktail dresses. Meanwhile the tuxedo is re-imagined as relaxed lounge jacket matched with pants with a stylish flounce at the leg. Accessories include a fishnet bag made entirely from recycled shoreline waste, as well as quirky and elegant earrings made from recycled glass and plastic which add to the contemporary look.New for this year s Conscious Exclusive collection is kids wear made of sustainable materials.What actually makes this collection conscious?The actual design process is pretty much the same as for any other collection; it is the sourcing of the new sustainable materials that takes the most time. The H&amp;M design team has been working with the Conscious Exclusive collection 2017 since last spring. The collection is an opportunity for our design team to experiment with new interesting sustainable materials and processes that can make our products more sustainable. The new sustainable material for this year s collection is Bionic, made from recovered plastic from shorelines, waterways and coastal communities.What are some of your personal favourite pieces from this collection?I love the blue brocade jacket. It s a real statement piece that you can wear in so many different ways, with denims for a casual look or the black pants with a frill at the bottom for a more sophisticated look. It's a precious piece I would save in my wardrobe forever and take out for special occasions. How can we as customers get more involved in conscious consumerism?There are several things that one can do to become a more sustainable consumer. One thing that will make a difference is to start handing in your worn-out clothes to our garment collecting initiative. We were the first fashion company to offer garment collection on a global scale. This helps reducing the quantity of textiles that end up in landfills. Up until today we have collected over 40,000 tons of garments and textiles in our stores to give them a new life. How you care for your garments is another important aspect. In 2014 we introduced the Clever Care label that can now be found in all H&amp;M products to encourage its customers to follow some easy steps to reduce their at-home footprint for example: don t wash your clothes unnecessarily and lower the washing temperature from 60 to 30 degrees, the clothes will be as clean but only use half the energy. Hang-dry your clothes and avoid tumble drying.