Is it about selling out or about coalition politics?Coalition politics were the first point of engagement. That was initiated at the beginning. I had resigned from the EFF by then.Why?I started a legal practice. Had I been in the EFF during that time, in all likelihood I would have left out of disagreement.Isn't coalition politics the only way a small party can exercise influence?I absolutely agree. But there are options.What were the options?Coalition politics needs to have its ideological compatibility, so a progressively left party ... not necessarily the ANC. There are other progressive parties.It would have had to be the ANC or DA, surely?At least there was still an option [to the DA].Are the EFF and ANC ideologically compatible?I wouldn't say in entirety. The ANC has got major challenges that are rife within the party.Wouldn't this have made a coalition with the EFF extremely complicated?When I speak about ideological compatibility I'm thinking about what has been the intention of the ANC in terms of its role in society. I'm not speaking about its leadership, I'm not speaking about individuals, or about whether it has deviated from its ultimate strategic objective. That is neither here nor there.Surely what needs to be considered is what sort of party the ANC is today, and whether the EFF should have formed a coalition with it as it is?When you have the option of the DA or the ANC you need to consider which is the better devil. When you start to break that down then historically, in terms of liberation and years of oppression, the DA is incompatible. It is not fundamentally in line with an economy that would repair the inequality of the past.So should the EFF have formed a coalition with the ANC?Yes.Wouldn't this have made the EFF an even bigger sellout?If it was established to destroy the ANC then I would agree with you. Then it would have sold out on its people. But its fundamental principle was to advance the interests of the African people applying Marxist-Leninist tools.How would it have done that in coalition with the ANC?Because historically the ANC was formed with the hope of creating a society that was going to rectify the damage of the past.Does that ANC still exist?There are two separate issues here. One is ideological. Second is the total, blatant corruption and the mess that is currently consuming the ANC. If [the EFF] had formed a coalition with the ANC it could have said: "This corruption of yours is coming to an end and we are taking over to ensure there is oversight and governance and accountability."You believe it would have had this kind of influence over the ANC?I believe so.If, as you claim, it hasn't had any influence on the DA, why would it have any influence on the ANC?Because of its ideological compatibility. Where it comes from. Its intentions. Where are those fundamentals in the DA? How do they start communicating if one is centre right and the other is left?Do you see the ANC as a party of the left now?Its individuals steer it away from the left. But it was established as a party of the left.Surely what matters is what it has become, not what it was?Definitely, I see that it has deviated.So it is not a party of the left?I am not going to confirm that. I am going to say individuals within the party have played with its ideological clarity.So wouldn't the EFF be selling out its principles if it formed a coalition with the ANC?No. Because I don't believe that the ANC is no longer a party of the left.Is it the party of the workers?That is where you have your Cosatu. The ANC and its alliance partners intend to serve workers.By killing them at Marikana?I'm going there. I'm giving you the fundamentals.Isn't there a major contradiction in what you're saying?No, there is no contradiction. I'm not confused. I'm very not confused. That is the intention of the alliance, its very nature. Hence the ANC would be inclined to the left as a party.But it's the party of Marikana, isn't it?Don't be impatient, don't be impatient. What transpired at Marikana is inexcusable, unacceptable and not justifiable.So how can the EFF form a coalition with the party associated with Marikana?I don't expect it to.Didn't you just say the EFF should have formed a coalition with the ANC?OK, fine, I'm still responding to you. How can the EFF go into a coalition with the party that is responsible, directly or indirectly, for Sharpeville?Isn't it a bit of a stretch to suggest that the party led by Mmusi Maimane is responsible for Sharpeville?I just said that historically.