Omotoso's attorney, Alwyn Griebenow, said the South African-based Nigerian televangelist, who was arrested last week and is facing human trafficking and sexual violence charges, was struggling to deal with his incarceration."He is not doing very well. He is not allowed to shave and only his wife and his lawyers are allowed to visit him. Members of the church are not allowed to visit him. Every time we query this we are told that it is on the instructions of the Hawks."Griebenow said Omotoso's wife, Taiwo, was also struggling. "She is very stressed and obviously very concerned. She supports him 100%." Nigerian pastor goes from pulpit to prison Taiwo, who has been staying in Port Elizabeth since the arrest, returned home to Durban on Friday but will be in court for the bail application on Wednesday. Attempts to contact her yesterday were unsuccessful.Police confirmed they had uncovered new information which they would use to oppose bail. Hawks spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Netshiunda declined to reveal details, saying he would do so in court."Yes, we have new information but we cannot divulge anything. The information we have is going to be used to oppose his bail application."Omotoso is head of the Jesus Dominion International church group. He was arrested in a bathroom at the Port Elizabeth International Airport on Thursday last week and appeared in court the next day. The 58-year-old father of three is alleged to have molested and raped at least 30 young women who attended his church. The allegations became public after an investigation by the SABC's Special Assignment .Omotoso has continued to receive support despite the allegations. A fellow Nigerian evangelist, Tay Martins, based in Pretoria, publicly came out in defence of Omotoso.Martins, of the Kingdom Unity Ministry, posted on Facebook: "When a man of God stumbles, it is only in God's interest that we rally around him in prayers to help him get back on his feet. Yes, he has sinned like all has sinned. But I trust that what God is interested in right now is the redemption of his soul and also the uplifting of God's entity - the church entrusted in his hands."The Nigerian Pastors' Association of South Africa said it tried to reach Omotoso when the allegations surfaced but could not do so. Its president, Bishop-elect Ranti Famodun, said the law should take its course. "We have sincere love for this great country and will not allow anyone to abuse the people of the land in the name of any religion," he said.