The lodge in De Vlugt, near the Prince Alfred Pass, is a place of pilgrimage for cross-country bikers who are drawn as much by its breathtaking views as its cheeky attitude. A sign advertising hot beer, lousy food, bad service, k*k accommodation , was recently removed after complaints by horrified neighbours.Unconventional owners Angie and Harold Beaumont appear to have riled locals and the municipal officials. A demolition order was issued in February by the High Court in George.According to the judgment, which followed a lengthy legal dispute, the G Spot was built too close to the Keurbooms River.The dispute involved government entities and officials concerned about building within the river s floodplain. Despite a March 15 deadline to demolish all structures, the Beaumonts have removed only the accommodation units and are refusing to budge from their home, claiming they have nowhere else to go.Their plight prompted a petition by bikers and intervention by the Western Cape MEC for economic development and tourism, Alan Winde.There is also a Save Angie s G Spot Facebook page where fans have posted pictures and videos.The move was akin to victimisation, said Beaumont, who proclaimed that she had finally found my Gspot when she first set eyes on the river-side location during a bike ride through the area 10 years ago. Soon afterwards, the couple bought the land and set up house in a renovated 1952 bus.Since then, the couple claim, they have been targeted by jealous neighbours, notably nearby trout lodge owner Ingo Vennemann.Beaumont said she and her husband had been targeted largely because of their commercial success. Our story is actually a victimisation thing. When we came here he [Vennemann] had the only facility for sleepovers and meals. From the day we got here he was reporting us, Beaumont told the Sunday Times.She said some of the structures in dispute were legal, having been built before the implementation of the National Environmental Management Act, which introduced stricter building regulations. This has destroyed us. We are already bankrupt over this ... we don t have money to appeal, Beaumont said.G Spot s neighbours hit back this week, claiming the De Vlugt community was fed up with the Beaumonts and their unruly biker visitors. It is absolutely a mess, said neighbour Katot Meyer. My personal feeling is that there isn t one resident of De Vlugt who supports them. </img>Harold and Angie Beaumont claim their neighbours in De Vlugt have had it in for them. Image: TRIPADVISOR Harold and Angie Beaumont claim their neighbours in De Vlugt have had it in for them. Image: TRIPADVISORMeyer said drunken bikers staged races and sometimes needed to be rescued from the river bed a claim the Beaumonts reject.Vennemann denied neighbours were jealous, saying they had initially supported the Beaumonts and advised them on how best to obtain the necessary development approvals. They chose to ignore us. Now they have not applied [for rezoning permission] and have lost the opportunity. Everybody else has had to follow the law. Why should they be excepted? George municipality spokeswoman Debra Sauer said the council was duty bound to execute the demolition order because the G Spot was within the 1:50-year floodline. This fact obviously holds serious risks for property and lives, said Sauer.The court action followed a long history of noncompliance with statutory provisions , she said. The municipality is mindful of the importance of tourism in rural areas and supports lawful tourism undertakings. It is the duty of landowners to ensure that their businesses are being lawfully operated. Sauer said the Beaumonts right to remain in their house was under discussion.Winde said: First and foremost, this is a legal matter. As with all establishments in the sector with no exception it is imperative that compliance with the law is followed. These rules are put in place to ensure safe and responsible development and practices. But some residents this week vouched for the Beaumonts and said their only crime was to breathe new life into the area. They are controversial characters but they are loved; there is no question about that, said one resident, adding that the G Spot was a major tourism asset that should be preserved.jordanb@sundaytimes.co.za