With over 100 works, the scope of Between Dusk and Dawn is huge. How many years of work does it cover?I am tempted to answer that it took 52 years, just because it's a process of growth as an artist and the time spent to materialise each piece becomes almost trivial. Practically speaking, it's been a year and a half of intense work to transform the imagined exhibition to a concrete one.Brakpan roadhouse turned art gallery puts the real East Rand on showIs this the largest show you've presented?My previous solo show in Joburg included only 85 pieces. The number of pieces is an abstract concept as they are all connected and I would easily say that they are all part of one big installation.Of course, each piece has its own individuality, but the dialogues they entertain with each other become a collective story.How would you describe your work?Working with found objects and waste materials is only a very thin skin enveloping my work. I progress with no concern of trend and I learned a long time ago not to think for others.As human beings we all have the same issues, the same questions to ask - they are just expressed with different intensity at different times of our lives. All my work is a mirror in which everyone is invited to look at themselves - if there is a willingness to do so. For me, the purpose of art is to open minds, hearts and souls.You are well known for your sculptures. Is painting a new medium for you?No, though I rarely use it and it's only four years ago that I started to express more emotions through it. It allows me an instinctive freedom that is more difficult to attain with other media.</img>'Fragmented' by Philippe Bousquet. Image: Supplied 'Fragmented' by Philippe Bousquet. Image: Supplied</img>'Deep' by Philippe Bousquet. Image: Supplied 'Deep' by Philippe Bousquet. Image: Supplied</img>'In search of humanity' by Philippe Bousquet. Image: Supplied 'In search of humanity' by Philippe Bousquet. Image: SuppliedTell us about your creative process and approach.I simply let things happen like I am only the tool that allows each piece to enter this world. I am not interested in techniques or technology, other than as an opportunity to materialise an idea.How has living in Joburg influenced your work?Living in South Africa has had a huge influence on the person I am and consequently on my work. The human, social, political and environmental issues are tremendous here.What advice would you give to aspiring artists?To be true and authentic with themselves beyond trend, style and so on. Between Dusk and Dawn is on until May 26 at Southern Guild Gallery, Woodstock