Q. My husband was issued with a multi-entry Schengen visa valid for three years in March 2016. We used it to visit France and did a week's trip into Germany.In August this year, we will be cruising on the Danube. The cities we will visit are Prague, Passau, Vienna, Esztergom, Budapest, Bratislava, Krems and Munich. Will this visa still be valid for all those places?I travel on a British passport but Brexit won't be a problem yet, right? - Gail Mossop Travel tips: Do South Africans need a visa to visit Bali?A. As you will be visiting the Czech Republic, Germany, Austria, Hungary and Slovakia, your husband's multiple-entry visa will be valid. So will your British passport and changes due to Brexit will still be negotiated over the next two years.The full list of countries under the Schengen agreement is Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.Q. Thank you for your article on the new rules about travelling with laptops. You said that Emirates flights via Dubai to the US would take your gadgets and pack them in a box for the leg between Dubai and the US.Is there any such plan for flights going via Dubai to the UK? I will be flying to the UK via Dubai in June. - Daphne JubberA. The British ban only covers airports in Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt and Tunisia. The US ban, which has also come into force, extends to Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait and the UAE. Flights from Dubai to the UK will not be affected so you can fly with your laptop in the cabin.Q. On March 20 we booked four tickets to New York for our family to celebrate my 70th birthday in the US with my son. The tickets are with SAA. One of the conditions on the tickets is that they are non-refundable and I understood this.Now my son cannot join us and as the only reason for choosing the US was because of him, we wouldn't mind finding an alternative destination.The travel agent with whom we booked says this can't be done, we have to go to the US and that the refund policy is what it is.Can you tell me why it is that, if we are not making use of SAA's seats, fuel, food etc, the tickets are non-refundable and if we are not using any airports, why we are still liable for airport tax? - Brigid Pohl Travel tips: Does the UK laptop ban affect Ireland?A. Your travel agent is correct, and that is the usual policy, even on domestic flights. This is why you have to be completely sure of your travel plans before booking. The rule may seem unfair but on the other hand if people could simply buy tickets on a "maybe" and then cancel for a refund, that could be abused and result in chaos in airline bookings. It would also entail a lot more admin work for airlines and travel agents, which could push up travel costs.If your family can meet up at a later date you might be able to change the dates of your flights but for a fee.If not, ask the agent to refund the applicable taxes on the tickets.Q. We are travelling to Lisbon with a three-hour stopover in Luanda. I've been told we need to have a yellow fever vaccine at least 10 days prior to departure. Is this correct? We will be in transit in Luanda for such a short time. - Luisa OliveiraA. Yes, you will still need a yellow fever vaccination. For whatever period you are in a country, you are at risk of contracting an endemic disease from other people. Presumably the drafters of such rules weren't prepared to put a "probably safe" time limit. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za