The joie de vivre with which they play reminds No9 Ross Cronj of his alma mater."I believe the way the Lions play suits my game. It's running rugby, it's attacking, it's a lot like what we played at Michaelhouse. It's highly enjoyable," enthused Cronj .The Lions have played with a smile the last few seasons and it has been a delight to watch. Their edge-of-your-seat brand took them to the top of the try-scoring charts in Super Rugby last season. Only the Hurricanes were ahead of them after last weekend's matches. Cream of the crop frontrunners in the search for a new Springbok captainThey haven't compromised substance for style. Rugby's practical outcomes are brokered by both artists and artisans."Winning becomes a culture," said Cronj . "We have been doing that."If you consider the type of rugby we are playing coupled with the fact that it is enjoyable to come to training, because of the coaches, it is just a nice environment to be in."It has taken a while but he has emerged from the shadow of scrumhalf Faf de Klerk to more regularly be in the Lions' starting line-up.They play to different strengths."That's just the type of players we are. Whoever starts is supported by the other. He's one of my good mates, we have a beer every now and then. Depending on the type of game the coach wants, he's got the luxury of choosing between the two of us," said Cronj .De Klerk's busy-like-a-bee playing style is obtrusive. Cronj 's calm, calculated, measured approach is less so. Cronj dictates the team's rhythm and pulse, while his kicking game has found favourable bounce.He attributes improvements in that area to new skills coach Neil de Bruin (son of assistant coach Swys)."He has come in as a skills and high-performance coach. I think he's been doing a sterling job just in terms of being able to identify where the space is and relieving pressure at the same time," he said. Stormers feel Lions crunch"He works on a couple of drills that I haven't seen before. Those are great drills and have helped us with our kicking game."Usually the nines will kick together and flyhalves do so by themselves. Now everything is game-related and it is about playing under pressure, working with wings for instance. I think it is paying off."Things didn't always go this well for the former Shark. "It's been a bit of a roller-coaster ride coming to the Lions early in 2012."Coming from the coast, I had to adjust, especially fitness-wise, purely because of altitude. It took me a couple of months to get used to it. Once I did, it was no holding back."There's been a lot of ups and downs but lately a lot more ups. I'm enjoying the environment the coaches have created."Winning isn't our goal. It's to score tries and play exciting rugby that will make all of us proud. If we narrow it down to scoring tries, winning will take care of itself."Cronj is not thinking too far ahead either. "I'm just focused on making the boat go faster here at the Lions."