The response, even at the second time of asking, was as underwhelming as the club s performance in front of goals, which means they now have to score in the second leg in Egypt if they are to advance to the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup. That will take some doing as Wits are likely to once again field mainly fringe players. It was clear from the body language to see which side wants most to do well in this competition. Smouha s coach, Moamen Soliman, paced frantically on the technical area while Wits coach Gavin Hunt shouted here and there but was mainly relaxed. For Wits, after being knocked out of the Nedbank Cup, their focus is on winning their maiden league title with a lesser workload than some of their rivals Mamelodi Sundowns and SuperSport United. Hunt will probably field his strong team against Golden Arrows here on Tuesday and then rest them for Cape Town City on April 19 instead of taking them to Alexandria.His hand, however, was forced to field some fringe players here, especially in defence with his preferred back four injured. The impact of those changes was hardly felt because the Egyptians played like a typical away team in continental football. They sat back, allowing Wits to have the ball but not in dangerous areas. When they attacked Wits, they were more direct even though they didn t trouble let alone test Moeneeb Josephs in the first half. Josephs only had to make his first save almost an hour into the match after Ahmed Hassan broke free to unleash a powerful shot that Slimkat saved with his legs. Josephs was forced to play the sweeper-keeper role with Wits pushing numbers forward and the Egyptians looking to play the ball behind their defence. This match looked a lot like Wits clash with another Egyptian side, the mighty Al-Ahly. The Clever Boys had most of the ball but couldn t do anything with it, fluffing a number of good chances. Wits looked threatening when they took Smouha on with their speed and pace but were let down by their decision-making. Their naivety let them down. It took two kids, in a dance-off at halftime, to give the fans something to cheer about. That energy pushed Wits to look better in the second half and pin their opponents in their own half. But they lacked the killer instinct to score a goal they would have taken to Egypt for the decisive leg that will determine which team goes to the group stage of this tournament.