Kenyan-born Stanislaw Trzebinski - the son of artist Antonio Trzebinski who was murdered in Kenya in 2001 and celebrated fashion designer Anna Trzebinski - exhibited his marine-inspired Triton s Table as part of Christie s Contemporary Living: Art Craft and Design exhibition. It showcased the work of contemporary artists designers and craftsmen from around the world. The 25-year-old sculptor who moved from New York to Cape Town a few years ago to find his artistic voice was selected by the Southern Guild Gallery in Cape Town to exhibit at the prestigious art house. Decor exhibit celebrates creatives who've put Cape Town on the global design mapTrzebinski began creating art as a way of connecting with his father - who was killed by a singe bullet in the driveway of a woman British newspapers reported was his mistress. A defining moment for me was when I lost my father. I think that not having him around made it more of an incentive to follow in his artistic footsteps and creating art became a way of connecting with him. I am a passionate sculptor. However a few years ago my grandmother requested especially that I make her a writing desk for her study. This was my first furniture commission. The table generated a lot of interest and I was prompted to make a few more which were equally well received. He said he was exceptionally excited about the Christie s exhibition which hosted art luminaries like Andy Warhol and Picasso. This was my first entry into the European market. No artist could ask for a stronger platform. He draws inspiration from nature and the sea in particular. The table is meant to be an imitation of what you would expect a table to look like after spending a few decades under the sea - encrusted by marine life and other organisms he said. Christie s Zoe Klemme said the exhibition is a new platform for promoting emerging talent. It offers an exciting new opportunity... and we hope it will inspire new ways of displaying art in the home. Trzebinski dropped out of the prestigious Pratt Institute in New York to pursue an internship with Otto Du Plessis the owner of Cape Town foundry in Bronze Age.