ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)The career keeps shifting and no one seems to have any idea about its destination. Don't worry about that yet. For now, it's money that's holding your attention - making it, acquiring it and accepting it when it comes your way. Pay attention to family and friends. Be kind to the people you love without worrying about whether they're being kind back. This is a great month for you.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Mars, the god of war, rage, ambition and sizzling sexuality is with you till Saturday. So take your pick. You might opt for the divinely passionate route; or you could rant at anyone standing in your path. Perhaps you'll demand an immediate promotion. Or you could simply bash someone desirable over the head and drag them back to your lair. Kidding. Don't do that.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Pack a bag - there's travel to be had, with a potentially long and meaningful look at foreign climes. Even if you don't stay, you'll come home with fabulous new ideas for improving your life and finances. Try to stay vaguely practical. The potential for confusion could mess up your plans, if you let it. Your planets are playing games of their own. So copy everything in triplicate.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)There's some fogginess sneaking in, leaving you with a vague unease and the beginnings of distrust in your own judgment. Stop right there! The feeling is more one of creative brilliance than congenital idiocy. It's just that you're not used to having your talents so cleverly lit up. Yes, the planets are somewhat off-kilter. But that's so you can access other parts of your wonderful mind.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)The love life is yelling at you ... it's time to mend those stomped-on fences and time to make your intentions clear. After all, even you must eventually tire of mind games. Real love is possible if you're willing to take a few risks. But if you let your pride dominate, wise remarks are all you'll have for company. The planets have temporarily pushed your intellect aside, letting your heart speak.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)No sulking allowed. If people are refusing to see things your way, you'll simply have to present your ideas differently. Just wait and see. A round of applause is coming soon. You're looking especially fabulous too, as the energies of romance fill you with enthusiasm. Just remember to share your good fortune. Your instincts are at their peak. Trust them, and yourself.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)What's all this? You've got sudden memory flashes, visitations from the past, accidentally discovered photographs. Making you nervous, isn't it? Don't let it. The planets have decided you're carrying too much baggage so they've dragged all the unresolved issues back into view. Your job is to sift, reassess, resolve and dump. You'll soon feel light enough to float.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Not even your infamous powers of persuasion can save you from the odd business disaster this week. In fact, a low profile might be the best business plan for now. And think carefully before forking out for any new toys. Your personal financial market is taking turns you won't begin to understand before next month. Save the creative juices for the love life. It needs them.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Strangely, the delays are working for you. You're being given a chance to finish those urgent tasks buried under the pile on your desk. You've only got a few weeks before the deals get back on track. Meanwhile, there will be problems with the lover as one of you gets cold feet. This is no time to get sulky. Spend a few days with yourself deciding what you want. Then speak, gently.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)There are career decisions to be made, but before you make yours, have a closer look at the distribution of power. You could find at least one hidden agenda, and you need to know what you're dealing with before you commit to anything long-term. From tomorrow, do a little showing-off. People are in the mood to be impressed and you have some pretty impressive talents.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Got a secret desire to leave town? Actually, it's more of a determination to squeeze the max out of every adventure. Beware of a tendency towards excess - in every department. But be on the lookout for a wild new romance. You're in the mood to be impressed by the superficial, only to find hidden shallows on closer inspection. The planets are in a mischievous mood. Careful.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Phew. Running out of steam? Start cutting back on the excess loads. You're working too hard for too little reward. It's time to recognise your own worth and to find the courage to make appropriate demands. Prosperity doesn't have to come with exhaustion. Meanwhile, watch yourself at the office. The urge to dash off to a motel with the boss will be powerful. Don't do it.