"Growing up, there was never white bread in our house," said the gorgeous, confident Sepel proudly, crossing her long tanned legs. "Sweets and sodas were a treat, even back then."Healthy balanced home cooking was my foundation. My mother was a brilliant cook and taught me how to cook."This South African cookbook author's making salads sexier than everYet even with this excellent foundation, Sepel admitted to having had a toxic relationship with food. "I think it started with puberty around the time we emigrated from South Africa to Australia. I became a chronic fad dieter and my life became a numbers game - controlled by the numbers on the scale."It was when I studied a bachelor of health and I learnt about the body and food groups that I realised what I had been doing to myself," she said. "I was poisoning my body."Sepel was in South Africa to launch her second book, Living the Healthy Life . Among a plethora of health books to hit the bookshelves recently, Sepel's is a personal guide filled with many words of encouragement (some of them a bit on the twee side), advice, a step-by-step plan to changing one's eating habits, a nd some great recipes .And if Sepel is anything to go by, it works.TRY SEPEL'S RECIPES FOR BERRY BREAKFAST CRUMBLESServes: 2Difficulty: EasyTime: 25 minutesIngredients:500ml (2 cups) mixed berries, fresh or frozen5ml (1 tsp) ground cinnamonCrumble:45ml (3 tbsp) organic or gluten-free oats15ml (1 tbsp) crushed walnuts15ml (1 tbsp) desiccated coconut15ml (1 tbsp) virgin organic coconut oil, melted5ml (1 tsp) raw honey or maple syrup2.5ml ( tsp) ground cinnamonA pinch of grated nutmegTo serve:Generous dollop of Greek-style yoghurtMethod:1) Preheat the oven to 200 C (180 C fan-forced).2) Combine the berries and cinnamon in a small baking dish or two ramekins.3) To make the crumble topping, combine all the ingredients in a bowl. Sprinkle the crumble evenly over the berries.4) Bake the breakfast crumble for 10-15 minutes or until golden. Serve with yoghurt. This recipe was extracted from 'Living the Healthy Life' by Jessica Sepel.