TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)The planetary dramas won't stop your progress but they'll create confusion which may not be yours. If you have children, they'll be confused. If you're caring for parents, do your best to calm their fears. If it's just you, be good to yourself. The planets know how much you deserve. But you're refusing to let them in. Vulnerability is a wonderful thing. Surrender to the planetary gods.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Your planets are on strike until mid May so be careful with your plans and finances. While you're waiting, think about your love life. The universe is rocking your relationships, digging away at the bottom layers you've so carefully covered up. When in doubt, concentrate on what feels right. Wednesday's new moon delivers the courage to do what's needed. Trust yourself to do right.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Do not make a single decision until well into next month. Your mind is way out in the clouds. If you're going to be an airhead, you might as well do it in style. No important changes are allowed. Expensive dinners and wild evenings, on the other hand, are compulsory no matter who's paying. Just do your best not to run off with anyone's spouse. That hardly ever goes according to plan.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)So who are you this week? Actually, the personality changes are winding down and your friends are flinching less when you walk into the room. Even so, your choices need clarity and your standards need revising. Most important is that love is much happier. And although you deny it vigorously, love must be right for you to prosper. Work on that. Money will find you in its own time.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)The planets are still dodgy, but the worst is over. If relationships are still intact by the time Wednesday's new moon brings a different look at love, congratulate yourself. If not, don't be overly disturbed and don't spend too much time beating yourself up. In fact, how about distracting yourself? Your inner self wants a treat and the planets are standing by to make it happen. Selfishness is OK.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Just when you'd resigned yourself to poverty (by your insane standards), a silver lining arrives. Be gracious and grateful. Allow the universe the space to bring more of everything. If the goodies are not exactly what you hoped for, be grateful anyway. And if the whole deal takes longer than you'd like, patience is also splendid. The new moon offers a different way to look at your world.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)The love life is on a very confused journey of its own. But, frankly, you couldn't care less. You're in one of those "stand aside and spectate" moods. Don't expect anyone to be impressed by your detachment. In fact, make a point of notifying anyone you'd like to hold on to. But do use the extra time to rearrange your plans. Travel options and unusual projects are there for your amusement.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)This is one of those times when you won't even have to move . Love is looking for you and all the goodies are arriving. Accept with humility. Most important will be the job offers or career opportunities you've been hoping for. Then there's the search for the perfect love. Open your eyes. It's standing in front of you. It's just a question of recognising what you didn't realise you wanted.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)If you tell the universe you're unhappy about peace and serenity, it will happily provide more drama for your neurotic entertainment. If you're bored, it's because you've allowed yourself to become boring. No one is responsible for your happiness but you. Ask yourself what fun means for you. Then go get some. Start by opening the door so you can get out. But don't you dare complain.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)How about developing some of those frightening social skills? If not, ask your friends to tell you whenever you shove both feet into someone's mouth. Or watch them at play, and imitate the good bits. Rule of thumb is that if someone bursts into tears, you've probably said something stupid. That aside, money looks fabulous. Say yes to every invitation. You never know who'll pitch up.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Battling with the career? Wondering how long you can keep up the fa ade? The answer is that you're not nearly done. The financial dramas are mostly over but there is some mess to clean up. Still, there are sufficient prospects to make your heart glad. The other cosmic rule is that you only get to leave something once you're truly happy there. It's the way the planets like it. So look for things to love.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)When you're hot, you're hot. If you're single, be glad. If not, be careful. Either way, buy something that makes you look even more fabulous and get out there. Nobody ever made anything happen while lying on the couch. The career is on a trip of its own. How about working nights for a while? Your energies are sharpened by the dark. And you don't want to end up in handcuffs. Or do you?