Chiefs were looking tired as the game headed to a close but were rescued by a left-footed screamer from the substitute.Lebese has had a half-hearted season so far but again emphasised his potential as Chiefs extended to 14 their unbeaten run in all competitions. They last lost to Chippa in early December in Port Elizabeth.Amakhosi also share the first spot with Cape Town City same points but are behind on goals scored and have played a game more. These are championship matches, said Chiefs coach Steve Komphela. We had to stay switched on. It is the time of the season where we have to scramble for every point. We march on... it s squeaky bum time! Lebese s goal was set up by another substitute, William Thwala. He received the ball with his right foot and switched it onto his stronger left foot to finish with aplomb, to the delight of Amakhosi fans.Veteran Siphiwe Tshabalala was again sublime in midfield, passing, probing, prodding and causing mayhem as he was given freedom to roam the field.Ramahlwe Mphahlele should have converted his inch-perfect pass after 15 minutes, but his technique on the header was wrong and a golden chance for the opener was missed.But that was the beginning of a myriad of half chances for Chiefs with Edmore Chirambadare lively on the wing and looking much more confident as he took on defenders but was let down by poor crosses.Inter play on the edge of the box by Chiefs also looked promising and there was a great chance for Tshabalala some five minutes before the break as he chose to side-foot the ball into the net but missed the target.Gustavo P ez, starting the game in place of suspended Bernard Parker, tried a scissor kick at the end of the first half but also went narrowly wide.Chippa took 36 minutes to have their first shot on Chiefs goal, but could have been ahead at half time when Sandile Zuke received a great pass in the box but completely miscued his shot and missed out on an opportunity to score against his former employer.Amakhosi looked much slower in the second half, having played on Wednesday away to Bloemfontein Celtic. But Chippa did not take advantage with only Andile Mbenyane having a second half chance which he blasted wide of goal. The Chilli Boys have now been sucked into the relegation battle after nine league matches without a win.