Every evening I go to bed setting my alarm clock for an early morning run. I picture myself running through Delta Park as the sun begins to rise, the fresh smell of the Joburg morning air - my Wayde van Niekerk speedy legs cruising through the beautiful cosmos.But when the alarm clock rings through my ears at 5am, I inevitably silence it in favour of a few minutes more in bed. I don't seem to be able to move at any pace, let alone Wayde's. We all know the feeling. Our future self is a disciplined super-athlete with a six-pack who eats only fruit and vegetables and has never craved the delight of Chuckles from Woolworths. Sadly, it is our current self that must be dealt with first. It's a fact: night owls can't help having out-of-sync sleeping habitsWhy is it that we are smart, rational people in our minds, but our actions tell a different story? Why do we continue to make decisions that facilitate our early demise? The answer is that we all suffer from the same affliction - being born human.We need to first understand how our brains work and then create a way to overcome its inherent weaknesses.Behavioural economics, a fairly new discipline that studies the way people behave and the factors that affect decision-making, may offer a clue as to why we often struggle to form better habits.When it comes to making decisions, our brains are wired to respond in two ways: The first is the fast-thinking section of our brain that is impulsive, emotional and impatient. It is also responsible for those responses we think might be automatic. The second type of response is slower in thinking; more deliberate, controlled, analytical and patient. It's a part of the brain we use to make more measured decisions.In our fast-paced world, we have become accustomed to making lightning-speed decisions. We simply do not have the capacity to deliberate about every decision. As a result, we succumb to the toxic environment that keeps us sitting for longer, keeps us from not exercising and consuming unhealthy food and drinks. While we may be having the time of our lives, it's a shorter and more disease-ridden life.But all is not lost. As we begin to understand human behaviour better, we are able to help make healthy decisions easier.Behavioural economists suggest that we can change habits that are formed from emotional responses by gently encouraging ourselves to put more thought into making the best possible decision based on what is in our long-term interests. The author of this article, Dr Craig Nossel, is head of Wellness, Discovery Vitality.