But it is what is not on the front of the phone that is perhaps more significant: for the first time in Samsung's smartphone history, it has removed its logo from the front. "We removed our branding from the front of the phone ... because we wanted to give more real estate to consumers," said Craige Fleischer, head of mobile for Samsung in Southern Africa.He told Business Times: "That was more important than having branding on the device."It also speaks of a new confidence at Samsung, which has finally overtaken Apple in differentiating phones by their striking design. Its deadly rival has never put its logo on the front of the iPhone, preferring the device's design to speak for itself. Since the launch of the Galaxy S6 edge in 2015, Samsung has been building a similar reputation.The launch of the new phones put the final shine on the Korean brand's refurbished image after a series of reputational disasters.Its share price had quickly recovered from the debacle of the exploding Galaxy Note 7, the implosion of its corporate strategy unit, and the group's leader being arrested in a bribery scandal. However, its potential for renewed growth still hinged heavily on the reception of the new handset.While Samsung has given no indication of whether it will resume the wildly popular Note line of large-screen "phablets", it is clear the new S8 and S8+ borrow more heavily from the Note legacy than from their immediate ancestors, the S7 and S7 edge.One of the most revolutionary features of the Note 7, iris recognition for authentication, has been incorporated into the new phone, along with facial recognition. The fingerprint sensor has been moved to the rear of the phone, and both front and rear cameras sport an industry-leading aperture of f1.7.The Note 7 offered a 5.7-inch screen, while the S8 and S8+ deliver, respectively, a 5.8-inch and 6.2-inch display. This gives both options greater credentials than the Note 7 for being described as phablets. Both displays come in Quad HD+, a super-high-definition format similar to that of the Note 7. However, they offer greater pixel density - 570 and 529 pixels per inch, compared to the Note's 518.Like the Note 7 and S7 edge, both offer a curved screen, but take it a step further with an edge-to-edge display that allows a far greater screen size in a frame not much bigger than its predecessors. Also, the S8 is marginally narrower than the S7 and S7 edge, making it more comfortable in the hand.In the same way the original Note led the market towards larger screens and forced Apple to compromise on display size, the large-screen format will probably see the market follow in its wake.The disappearance of the frame is the key to Samsung's marketing slogan "Unbox your phone"."We know there is technology fatigue in terms of hardware evolution," said Fleischer. "How do you make something revolutionary again? By pushing the boundaries in terms of aesthetics and screen size, as with the borderless display."However, he was adamant that the software and services associated with the device created as much differentiation as its appearance. A new voice-controlled "virtual assistant" called Bixby uses artificial intelligence to interpret requests or instructions based on the context of location, previous behaviour and what else the user is doing on the phone. Bixby learns from a user's habits and activities, adapting its recommendations as it builds on its internal intelligence.The AI functionality is partly made possible by another breakthrough at Samsung. It is the first manufacturer to produce a new generation of ultra-thin computer chips measuring 10nanometres. The previous thinnest chips measured 14nm, already thinner than a human hair, but made energy and space demands that placed physical constraints on phones. A number of manufacturers have been working on the new format, first defined almost a decade ago.Samsung has won the race to go into 10nm mass production, using the S8 as its first vehicle."This is not technology for technology's sake," Fleischer said. "Because we've shrunk the chip, information doesn't have to travel as far, which means processing power is so much greater. Energy usage is reduced, because it doesn't have to work as hard to do the same thing."Ultimately, it provides the consumer with blazingly fast access to information and allows the AI to reside on the device rather than being processed remotely. You're not just getting incremental but substantial improvement in processing, graphics and battery consumption."Samsung would not give any clues to the Note range's future, but Fleischer did offer a hint: "People still love the stylus, which is the one Note feature we did not include in the S8. If you look at the lengths we had to go to in trying to get back the Note 7 from customers, and that we still have a million devices out there because they don't want to give it back, you can see how much they really love the device. My view is it potentially will continue as a franchise."