Tell me about your work as a lawyer?I have been in practice for more than 18 years. During my legal career I specialised in litigation and dispute resolution as well as media law.What does your typical work day involve?Every day is unique, although there are common activities, such as:Taking instructions from clients or consulting them for more information or details on an existing matter;Consulting with counsel to brief them on new matters or strategising and preparing for trials or arbitrations;Drafting documents such as letters, pleadings, affidavits, legal opinions and media complaints; andAdministration, management, marketing and training.Did you always want to be a lawyer?My choice was always law, although I had a keen interest in philosophy and psychology. I matriculated from the National School of the Arts and was always passionate about acting and dancing.You have put a lot of effort into mentoring young lawyers; what motivated you to get involved in this?I am passionate about law and the legal profession, so I consider it a privilege to be a part of the growth and development of the young legal generation. I believe that the foundation of a lawyer's career is built during one's early days of articles of clerkship, and I understand the importance of investing my time and sharing my knowledge and experience to ensure that young lawyers receive the best experience possible.What is the best career advice you have ever received and who gave it to you?There are two instances that I can think of. When I started my articles, my first principal, Derek Mazaham, taught me to pay attention to the finest detail in all documents. This has been critically important, as the most subtle information can have a dramatic influence on a matter. When I was newly admitted as an attorney I was advised to read The Art of War by Sun Tzu. I have applied many of the principles in what we call the Art of Law, such as: "Appear weak when you are strong and strong when you are weak."You have been involved in some high-profile cases, including representing the ANC's chief whip, Jackson Mthembu, in a defamation case. Do you approach these cases differently knowing the coverage they will get?We approach every client - regardless of the matter - with the same commitment and dedication. High-profile matters demand a different approach, because in many instances there is media attention that must be managed in the best way possible. In some instances we have instituted proceedings against both print and broadcast media.What do you enjoy most about the work you do?I enjoy the challenge of not only representing my clients in the best way, but also of starting my own firm, which has been the most exciting and inspiring journey.What has been truly amazing is the loyalty of my clients and staff. The creation of our firm's logo to reflect the ethos of our firm was exciting and innovative. Our logo is the Yin Yang, which symbolises balance - such as the scales of justice.