They remain the local teams most likely to get the chop when plans for a reduction in the competition's entrants from 18 to 15 are firmed up in the middle of next month. The Rebels and the Force look most likely to be jettisoned in Australia.The bouncers may be circling, but they won't leave without a fight.Cheetahs chief executive Harold Verster, however, admitted they were already in discussions regarding their future. "We are busy with a process with SA Rugby so I can't say too much. It may harm our position, especially with our sponsors." Super Rugby confusion to be cleared up todaySouthern Kings chief operating officer Charl Crous also suggested some behind-the-scene manoeuvring was at play."There are discussions that are going on at a higher level in terms of potential competition formats but nothing on particularly what the position is because it is not clear whether a team will drop out amid all the speculation," Crous said.He's living in hope.With SA Rugby's criteria weighted heavily in favour of wealthier metropolitan areas, Bloemfontein and Port Elizabeth are unlikely to tick the desired boxes. In addition, team performances will be factored into the final decision. The Kings' win over the Waratahs on Friday may be too little, too late."They can say all those things. The facts speak loudly," said Verster to the accusation that Bloemfontein and surrounding areas aren't supporting Super Rugby in large numbers."Our stadium, in last year's Currie Cup final, was the only one to have a sell-out crowd in South Africa, including tests," he reminded.In defending the Cheetahs' performances in Super Rugby, Verster pointed an accusing finger. "Have you checked how the Bulls performed for a number of years in Super Rugby? For a number of seasons they didn't win a game." (Strictly speaking this is not true. The Bulls went without a win in 2002 season, which means you can make the argument they didn't win a match between 2001 and 2003)."The point is, we've won the Currie Cup, we are on an upward curve. Unfortunately this thing has hit us and there is uncertainty."We remain a feeder team for South African rugby. That applies to all levels, players, coaches, sevens, transformation, etc. We are busy with a process in which we are looking at all our options," said Verster.They were noncommittal this week about potentially joining the Pro12 (Celtic League). You need to balance game development and what makes commercial sense. We have a big pool of players which obligates us to look for alternatives If an exit strategy is being brokered, part of it will have to include compensating the Cheetahs who have contracted players like Francois Venter, Oupa Mohoje and Uzair Cassiem beyond this year on the understanding they were a permanent fixture in Super Rugby.The players, however, will still need proper exposure to remain in contention for Springbok selection.The Kings don't have any players contracted beyond this season.The players' association - MyPlayers - were loath to strap on their boots on already sensitive ground, but managing director Eugene Henning rather optimistically expressed the hope for a smooth resolution.He accepts change has to happen. "We understand in a professional environment there has to be a balance. The decision to expand Super Rugby from 15 to 18 teams was a great rugby development decision but not a great commercial decision. You need to restore the balance."When you restore the balance you have to be aware about who, when and how you affect people."Henning urged that the demands of amateur and professional rugby not be conflated. "You need to balance game development and what makes commercial sense. We have a big pool of players which obligates us to look for alternatives."Just because one competition is getting smaller doesn't mean the rest of the world is closed down."All we want is for players not to be impacted negatively."sports@timesmedia.co.za