As well as being cute visitor attractions, animals born in captivity can play an important role in ensuring the survival of their species.Here's a look at some of this year's new arrivals, many of whom are already stars of the internet. WATCH: The unlikely friendship between two orphans - a rhino and a catCincinnati Zoo in America is currently caring for a baby hippopotamus born prematurely at the end of January, and the hippo, named Fiona, is already a rising star of the internet. The team has been keeping fans updated online with daily reports on the hippo's health.The calf is being cared for by humans to help her feed using milk from the mother. Handlers are also helping Fiona develop her coordination in water.Although polar bears can have trouble breeding in captivity, two cubs were born in Europe in November. Fritz, born at Berlin's Tierpark zoo, sadly died earlier this year.At Mulhouse Zoo in the Alsace region of France, a polar bear called Sesi gave birth to a cub called Nanuq on November 7.Since February 1, visitors have been able to observe the interactions between mother and cub thanks to a screen installed in front of the enclosure. The cub was named Nanuq ('Nanoonk,' which means "polar bear" in Inuit) by web users who were asked to vote for a choice of four names.</img>Nanuq, the polar bear cub, at Mulhouse Zoo, France. Image: VINCENT KESSLER/REUTERS Nanuq, the polar bear cub, at Mulhouse Zoo, France. Image: VINCENT KESSLER/REUTERS Famous French zoo, Zoo de Beauval, which is home to two Chinese giant pandas, celebrated the arrival of a baby white rhinoceros on November 18.Beauval handlers are already busy taking care of two white rhinoceroses and one Indian rhinoceros, all born in the space of a year, but the new arrival, named Gaya, is the first female calf.</img>Baby white rhinoceros Gaya at Zoo de Beauval, France. Image: Zoo de Beauval/Instagram Baby white rhinoceros Gaya at Zoo de Beauval, France. Image: Zoo de Beauval/InstagramIn marsupial news, the zoo's baby koala, called Tinaroo, has been melting visitors' hearts since being born in May.</img>Baby koala Tinaroo and mother Hanya at Zoo de Beauval, France. Image: Zoo de Beauval/Facebook Baby koala Tinaroo and mother Hanya at Zoo de Beauval, France. Image: Zoo de Beauval/FacebookSydney's Taronga Zoo has been celebrating the birth of a fennec fox cub, December 3. The baby fox has now emerged from its nesting box and is busy exploring the enclosure. Visitors to the zoo can also visit the lion cubs, born at the end of November, who recently made their public debut.</img>A fennec fox cub at Taronga Zoo, Sydney, Australia. Image: WILLIAM WEST/AFP A fennec fox cub at Taronga Zoo, Sydney, Australia. Image: WILLIAM WEST/AFP A "liger" cub was born to a female tiger and a male lion on November 11. The cub, named Tsar, has his mom's stripes and his father's fur. The two other newborn cubs didn't survive. This kind of birth is extremely rare. There are currently only around 20 "ligers" in the world. </img>Tsar the "liger" cub in Rostov-on-Don Zoo, Russia. Image: Yuri MALTSEV/AFP Tsar the "liger" cub in Rostov-on-Don Zoo, Russia. Image: Yuri MALTSEV/AFP In the suburbs of Tel-Aviv, the Ramat Gan Safari Park recently announced the birth of Rami, a baby white rhino (an endangered species). The mother and her handlers patiently awaited the arrival during the rhino's one-and-a-half-year gestation.</img>Rami the white rhinoceros at Ramat Gan Safari Park, Israel. Image: JACK GUEZ/AFP Rami the white rhinoceros at Ramat Gan Safari Park, Israel. Image: JACK GUEZ/AFP Note that not all of these baby animals will be visible to the public in the zoos where they live. They may still be too young to cope with being admired by scores of curious visitors. Check before you visit to avoid disappointment.