The 36 designers who missed out on showing their latest collections include Kefseddy from Botswana, David Alford from Zimbabwe, Ami Yomekpe of AfroModTrends from Ghana and Laduma Ngxokolo from South Africa. International model Ajuma Nasanyana (born in Kenya) will lead the charge on the runway. Here are four of the designers in the line-up:Edda Gimnes floors the front row at SA Fashion WeekHail from: BotswanaDesigners behind the brand: Gertrude Motopamele and Kutlwano MogojweAwards: International Fashion Designer Award in Toronto, Canada, in 2014, and the Fashion beyond Boundaries Award in 2015.Fashion philosophy: Fashion is a passport to creativity and has provided a profitable passion and an opportunity for self expression. Motopamele and Mogojwe's birthplace of Botswana has afforded them the opportunity to pursue their passion for fashion without any religious or cultural restrictions.Inspiration: Mogojwe's is his wife and business partner.Quote to design by: "Fashion is everywhere. We're all models and the world is a runway." - Kutlwano MogojweThe future: International demand for the African aesthetic will grow over the next decade. They aim to be available in boutiques in Botswana, South Africa and around the world.When the duo are not designing, they're travelling, collecting inspiration wherever they go.Challenges: Finding reliable distribution channels and penetrating the retail market.</img>A look by Nigeria's Ituen Basi. Image: SuppliedA look by Nigeria's Ituen Basi. Image: SuppliedHails from: NigeriaTraining: London College of Fashion.Career highlights: Her first full collection in 2009 featured an innovative interpretation of Ankara print. She's previewed at the Vogue Fashion Dubai Experience, and was awarded African Designer of the Year in 2012. Ituen Basi shows at 6pm tomorrow nightInspiration: The couturiers of yesteryear.Style: "There's a narrative woven into garments, like when you wear a heritage piece passed down from your grandmother."Quote to design by: "Love the fun of the clothes, not the status of fashion." - Ralph LaurenColours: Though she works with a wide palette of colours, white is her favourite - a stark canvas for her striking designs, which are inspired by anything from a fleeting shadow on an old wall to the fabrics found in her country.Challenges: Local design talent could benefit from apprenticeships, internships or mentorships with established designers. Her subsidiary companies, IntoFashion and Fashion Development Agency, run training programmes aimed at promoting, supporting and building fashion wannabes in Nigeria to improve their skills.Hails from: MozambiqueBackground: The son of a seamstress, he fell for fashion watching his sister get ready for school.Career highlights: Designer of the year at Mozambique Fashion Week 2008, showed at Milan Fashion Week 2011, and received the emerging designer of the year award at Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Africa 2012.Fashion philosophy: Similarly to using the same alphabet for a variety of languages, with fashion we can use the same resources to achieve an array of results.Quote to design by: "When you have an idea, you have to develop it for the world." - Giambattista ValliWhen he isn't designing: Time with family and friends, pours himself into literature, and explores the outdoors.Challenges: The lack of a developed fashion industry in Mozambique. When he started his career, there were only a handful of stores in Maputo selling fabrics. There were also no modelling or photographic agencies at the time. He had a dream of becoming a designer in a place where it was almost impossible.</img>A piece from the 2017 collection of Nigeria's Chidinma Obaira. Image: SuppliedA piece from the 2017 collection of Nigeria's Chidinma Obaira. Image: SuppliedHails from: NigeriaBackground: Always clipping on the imaginary mood board in her head, Obairi can't remember a time when she wasn't designing. Shaped by Nigeria, her designs are about self expression, self identification and comfort. She's styled magazine covers and showcased at GTBank Fashion Weekend in Lagos last year.Mentor: Her mother is her style icon and inspiration.Fashion philosophy: Attention to detail is imperative and quality is key to brand loyalty.Quote to design by: "Self-expression and identification solidifies style."Challenges: The manufacturing process still presents a number of challenges for African designers.Would like to dress: Michelle Obama or Beyonc , and women as far as Australia from her studio in Lagos. For a full show schedule see africanfashioninternational.com This article was originally published in The Times.