Matlali, the founder and CEO of Johannesburg-based Africa Teen Geeks, one of Africa's largest nonprofit technology education organisations, said access to computers was one of the biggest challenges facing South African schools. She found that schools with computers did not necessarily have access to the internet and the computers were often old or did not work."We had to come up with a way to take the computer away from teaching [computer] coding. This project, Knit2Code, has removed all the barriers. All you need is a yarn and a pair of needles."Computer coding and knitting use the same principles. "You knit in zeros and ones, organised in long sequences. When you turn a stitch it is a loop just like computer language," she said. Kids excel by making a game out of learningAnd like computer language, knitting relies on algorithms, or patterns, to come up with very different results scarves, jerseys, shawls or mittens. "The possibilities, just like in computer coding, are infinite."Only 5% of schools teach IT, and only from Grade 10 and usually in more privileged schools, said Matlali.The graduate of Cape Town, Stanford and Columbia universities believes the skill needs to be introduced from Grade 1.Sonja Giese, director of Innovation Edge, which supports educational innovations in early childhood, said the work of Knit2Code was a crucial part of Stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) education."Not so much because it teaches children coding per se, but because the approach is fun and relevant, affordable and teaches abstract concepts in tangible ways." Giese said rote learning often replacedunderstanding."By Grade 4, more than half of all young children in South Africa do not pass standardised assessments for minimal levels of numeracy. And Grade 4 performance is a reliable predictor of Grade 12 performance."We need to lay better foundations for early numeracy ... and Knit2Code is a great example of this," Giese said.Knit2Code runs pilot projects in 15 Mpumalanga schools through a partnership with the provincial government, as well as in two schools in Soweto.IT graduate Sibongile Mayi-sela, 33, of Belfast, Mpumalanga, works for Teen Geeks, training teachers in the use of knitting as coding, and teaches one class of would-be programmers.Mayisela teaches a group of 27 girls from four schools. A further 150 children are on a waiting list. We need to lay better foundations for early numeracy ... and Knit2Code is a great example of this She said the best way to explain coding was by making references to Facebook or WhatsApp."I show the kids and teachers that if you click on something, you end up somewhere else. This means someone has created a code so that it would happen."Matlali is developing a programme called Knock2Code using carpentry to teach computer code to boys."Some boys don't want to be seen with a [knitting] needle. Angles are concepts of computer science, so those boys will not be left behind."