What does your job involve? I acquire properties for rentals and sales, I value properties, inspect and list properties, take photos, and ensure that the property is marketed and advertised accordingly. I also manage promotions, viewings, client liaison, stakeholder management, stock management and administration.You were at M-Net before changing track and becoming part of the property industry. Tell me about your time in broadcasting and what led to your move. My time in broadcasting was very exciting - from directing live news bulletins to programme acquisitions, which enabled me to travel and acquire extensive knowledge about programmes/film production. I visited major studios, like Warner Bros, Universal Studios, Sony Pictures, HBO and CBS.I had made the decision to start my own business and ventured into projects and events management, as well as a fashion company. While I was battling to get the companies off the ground, a dear friend introduced me to my current principal at Dogon Group Properties, who offered me a position. It was a new and exciting challenge that I felt ready to undertake.How easy was it to change career?Changing career is never easy. There are always teething problems. I had challenges that I overcame by reading all the necessary documents and doing lots of research so that I gained the relevant knowledge.How has your experience in broadcasting helped you in property?The experience that I acquired in my previous positions is definitely playing an important role in my current position. It has prepared and enabled me to manage a business: handling clients, managing relations, marketing and advertising the product, promotions, administration and human relations. The list is endless.What do you most enjoy about your work? The best part of my job is when showing clients well-appointed properties in upmarket areas and, of course, finalising the deal.What would you prefer not to do?I haven't had the opportunity yet to realise what it is that I would prefer not to do.What did you want to be when you were a child?Growing up in my society, the role models available were teachers, nurses and police officers, but I always wanted to become a social worker.What advice would you give to people planning to sell their homes?Do not overprice your property; Renovate the property to look decent and sellable; and Most buyers are looking for modern houses, except in cases when they want to buy an old house so they can rebuild it.And what would you like to tell those planning to buy a property?Search for bargains and buy in a secure, well-established area; Ensure that your credit profile is excellent; and Secure pre-qualification from your bank to avoid disappointment when you apply for a loan.