It improves body tone, flexibility, strength and posture. If you make stretching a habit, especially in the mornings after your body has been at rest, you'll alleviate aches and pains in the muscles and joints.Here are some easy stretches to do at home:1) UPWARD STRETCHRaise arms towards the sky to get the blood flowing and wake up the body. Lace fingers together and raise hands above the head, palms facing upward. Elongate the spine and feel the stretch in your ribcage and arms. Hold for a count of 10, then incorporate a sitting side stretch to target the torso.Novel exercises that'll shake up your tired gym routine2) NECK AND SHOULDER STRETCHTo ease tension that happens while sleeping. To stretch the muscles on the right side of your neck, turn left ear over to left shoulder and hold for 20 seconds. Repeat on the other side to stretch out left side. Relax, then roll shoulders to the back, and then to the front. Lift them up to your ears, tensing the muscles, and allow them to drop completely. Repeat this sequence three times.3) SPINAL TWISTTo relieve stress in the lower back. Sitting on the edge of your bed with legs together, rotate your spine from the waist, placing one hand behind you and the other hand on your outer thigh for support. For a deeper stretch for the neck, turn your gaze to look over your shoulder. Hold 2-3 deep breaths. Repeat other side.4) QUAD STRETCHStand on one leg with your knees touching. Grab your left foot with your left hand and pull towards your butt. Keep chest upright and tilt hips forward for a more effective stretch. Hold for 20 to 30 seconds, then stretch the other leg. Quads are overworked muscles so stretch them every day.5) UPPER BACK RELEASEStand with feet hip-distance apart, clasp hands in front of you and round your upper back keeping arms straight. Think about the shoulder blades spreading wide across your back. Hold this stretch for 2-3 deep breaths.6) SHOULDER AND CHEST RELEASEHolding a wall with your left arm, step forward with your left leg and turn your body to the right, especially at the hips. Hold for 4-6 deep breaths. Repeat on the other side. It also stretches the biceps.7) HAMSTRING STRETCHStand with feet hip-distance apart and knees slightly bent, and bend forward at the hips. Allow your upper body to hang over your legs and clasp elbows. (Don't hang from your elbows if you have lower back issues. Instead, place hands on floor or legs for support.) Hold for 2-3 deep breaths while you gently shake your head no and even more gently nod your head yes. To come up, pull in abs and gently round up one vertebra at a time.So, don't just get up and go every morning. Take a few deep breaths and greet the day with a few good stretches - your body and mind will thank you for it. Information provided by Bonitas Medical Fund. This article was originally published in The Times.