The bus, which was travelling from Mzumbe on the South Coast towards Nkandla in the north, overturned after the driver lost control at about 11am and it rolled several times.MEC for transport and community safety and liaison Mxolisi Kaunda visited the accident scene yesterday. We are really hurt and disappointed at this disaster. We have been working for weeks to avoid such disasters. BREAKING: 'Driver' in fatal KZN bus crash let his friend drive, leading to 14 deaths Traffic officers have been tasked to get engineers to investigate the cause of this, Kaunda said.Kwanele Ncalane, his spokesman, said it was the worst accident recorded over the Easter long weekend. This is a tragedy. Even over the December festive season there were no major fatal accidents where scores of people were killed in one accident. According to unconfirmed reports, five of the deceased were from one family. It appears the passengers were on their way to attend a traditional function in Nkandla, Ncalane said. In the Western Cape, at least two people were taken to hospital on Friday after a 15-year-old boy allegedly stole a truck and crashed it into two provincial traffic vehicles and a private car on the N2 near the Cooper off-ramp in Mossel Bay.According to the Arrive Alive website, the boy drove through a roadblock and crashed into a car carrying three people, a woman believed to be from Johannesburg and two visitors believed to be from England.Paramedics found a woman in her 20s and a man, 65, trapped in the vehicle. A third occupant of the car, a 64-year-old woman, was treated on the scene for moderate injuries and transported to Bayview Hospital. The teen was taken to Mossel Bay Provincial Hospital with minor injuries.In Pretoria, a bus driver was killed and four people injured when a bus and a truck collided in the central business district yesterday morning.National Transport Department spokesman Ishmael Mnisi said final figures for road fatalities would be released after the Easter holidays.The nationwide bus strike ended yesterday after the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa called on members to return to work.This followed a consultation process with members about a 9% wage increase offer by the National Bargaining Council.Numsa secretary-general Irvin Jim said: We will not tolerate any victimisation of our members for their participation in the strike. The fact that our members, even under the new wage agreement, will continue to be exposed to dangerously long hours without compensation is shameful. 