Event organisers say the days of feeding the blindfolded mom-to-be a jar of baby food have made way for champagne, canap s and nappy-decorating stations at boutique hotels or beautiful garden venues with clients forking out up to R100,000 for the event."How deep they dig into their pockets is really a personal choice. People want an elegant and bespoke event and they are willing to pay for it. Wowing their guests and being the talk of the town is what it's all about," said Ishrat Joosub of Outlandish Events in Johannesburg."Some of the baby shower themes are Chanel Chic, Vintage and Breakfast At Tiffany's. Baby showers are focused on creating memories, not just receiving gifts. The photos have to be Instagram- and Pinterest-worthy. People are looking for a more personal and distinct event to celebrate the arrival of their babies," said Joosub.Joosub said it was mostly the mom-to-be or parents-to-be hosting the baby shower instead of a friend or family member."Since they want an over-the-top baby shower, they refrain from putting that type of pressure on family members and friends. Most of our baby showers are referred to as 'mini weddings' because of their elegance, style and class."Joosub said the regular savoury platters had made way for canap s and a variety of delicious-looking finger foods."A popular trend is live stations such as a waffle station, pancake bar and sushi bar. The wow factor comes in the dessert table."One of Joosub's clients, Theodora Tambo, the granddaughter of the late ANC stalwart Oliver Tambo, opted for Chanel Chic for her baby shower at the Inanda Club in Sandton last year, where the decor was in black and white with a touch of pink.The centrepieces on each table consisted of vases of flowers as well as hanging birdcages filled with more flowers, while the focal point was the dessert table, where everything including macaroons, cupcakes and chocolate mousse was in black and white.</img>Theodora Tambo's Chanel chic theme. Image: Cheeky Pics PhotographyTheodora Tambo's Chanel chic theme. Image: Cheeky Pics Photography</img>Tambo opted for a high tea. Image: Cheeky Pics PhotographyTambo opted for a high tea. Image: Cheeky Pics PhotographyTambo, 27, of Hyde Park in Johannesburg, said she had opted for a high tea and hada photo booth and a onesie-decorating station."The games are just not for me. I am creative and I love design so getting my friends and family to decorate onesies for my daughter to wear in her first year was really lovely," said Tambo, who was in a little black dress, Chanel-inspired blazer and a pair of five-inch heels.Natasha Rencken of Posh Events said she had seen a significant increase in baby showers on a larger scale over the past few years.Rencken said the spend varied from R150 a head for a simple lunch or high tea, to well over R800 per person for a larger event with lavish decor and catering.</img>The treats on offer at Theodora Tambo's Chanel chic theme. Image: Cheeky Pics PhotographyThe treats on offer at Theodora Tambo's Chanel chic theme. Image: Cheeky Pics PhotographyActress Carmel Fisher's elegant baby shower at the Radisson Blu hotel in Sandton last year was attended by a string of local celebrities, including Pabi Moloi, Shashi Naidoo and Jen Su.Fisher, who assisted in the planning of her baby shower, said: "[Other women and I] no longer want to be the focus of bad jokes and embarrassing street walks in grossly smeared outfits. Instead, women now want a more sophisticated yet fun way of sharing the news of their bundle of joy while opening prezzies, receiving much-needed mommy advice and wishes as a first-time mom."Whitney Kunene, the wife of businessman Kenny Kunene, had a guard of honour when she made her red-carpet appearance at her all-white "baby boy launch" three weeks ago at a guesthouse in Northcliff, Johannesburg, which was attended by about 50 women. Kenny said they had booked the entire venue so that guests could stay over.</img>Mokgadi Machuisa's Tiffany & Co theme. Image: SUPPLIED Mokgadi Machuisa's Tiffany & Co theme. Image: SUPPLIED"The event was planned by Whitney's mother and other family members. All the decor was in white and gold. We did what we thought was proper for us and our guests. There were games, food, champagne and dancing," said Kenny, who did not want to disclose the event costs.Johannesburg supply chain manager Mokgadi Machuisa planned her own baby shower, saying she felt "underwhelmed but grateful" by the shower her friends had thrown for her. "I wanted class, elegance and bespoke. One that would stand out."Machuisa's theme was Baby &amp; Co under the Tiffany &amp; Co banner.</img>The food served at Machuisa's baby shower. Image: SUPPLIEDThe food served at Machuisa's baby shower. Image: SUPPLIED