Hails from: Fairview Cheesery, PaarlThe cheesery produces more than 50 cow's milk and goat's milk artisanal cheeses. This is a soft white mould cheese with a unique creamy umami taste.Hails from: Bapsfontein, GautengHusband-and-wife team Norman and Rina Belcher produce an award-winning range of goat's milk cheeses. The ash-covered soft white mould-ripened chevre has an interesting texture and is delectably creamy with a lingering light smoky flavour from the ash, which finishes it off perfectly.Around the world in 5 cheese recipesHails from: Knysna, Western CapeCheesemaker Christopher Metelerkamp hand-makes a superb selection of cheeses using the milk from his small herd of Jersey cattle. The Blue Moon is an excellent balance of the salty tartness of a true blue and a rich creaminess.Hails from: Stanford, Western CapeOn Klein River farm, cheesemaker Jacko Van Beulen makes a variety of cheeses using artisanal methods. The rich, custard-coloured aged Gouda-style cow's milk cheese is matured for nearly five months. Unlike the rubbery orange cheese South Africans have come to know as gouda, this cheese is full of flavour with a gentle bite.Hails from: Williston, KarooIn an area known for sheep, cheesemaker Francy Schoeman makes a superb range of raw-milk cheeses from her small herd of Jersey cows. Full of character and flavour, the Karoo Bossie is a beautifully textured firm semi-soft cheese with a natural rind.Hails from: Greytown, KwaZulu-NatalMJ Mook emigrated to South Africa from the Netherlands, and her frustration in finding good cheeses made her start making her own - a raw-milk farm cheese, boerenkaas, which is also available in a variety of natural flavours.The tastiest way to eat haloumi cheese this winterHails from: Franschhoek, Western CapeVoted South African Dairy Product of the Year in 2016, Dalewood Huguenot was developed by cheesemaker Rob Visser using milk from his prize Jersey herd. This excellent cheese is a semi-hard brushed-rind mould cheese, which is slow-matured for at least six months. It has a delicious nutty-salty flavour.ALL THE CHEESES ARE AVAILABLE FROM: Cheese Gourmet, a specialist shop in Linden, Johannesburg, which stocks one of the largest selections of artisanal South African cheeses. Call 011- 888-5384 . Culture Club Cheese in Bree Street, Cape Town, which, apart from making the best toasted cheese, sells a wide array of artisanal cheeses. Call 021-422-3515.