The chirpy welcome at the gate at the Mountain Zebra National Park outside Cradock, one of SANPark's smaller diamonds, was an indication of good things to come and the guard was only too pleased to point out the list of animals we could expect to see. It's delightful to encounter staff wreathed in pride and proprietorship about their place of work. You don t need the big five for a memorable nature tripIt wasn't long before we had our first game sighting, a red hartebeest sprawled next to a termite hill with his snout stuck deep into it and horns smudged with thick red mud. That has to be right up there on a scale of unusual photographs. But it is the landscape that makes us catch our breath and repeatedly halt the van just to stare. It's an endless vista of gently rounded mountains stretching into the distance with only the crisp, sharp air a reminder that this is real life and not a Karin Daymond painting. Far below and outside the park, mid-summer heat and colour wash over the Karoo, but pausing on top of the voluptuous Bankberg mountains all one sees is the grey-green backdrop, muted tones and pointillist texture sweeping away forever. Gaze long enough and pin-pricks of fresh colour emerge as the fynbos shyly releases its charms - 13 red data species of flora are protected in the park.The mountain zebras' bold design is an electric flash as they skitter across the road then peep timidly from behind a sparse shrub, curiosity getting the better of them. The park's proclamation in 1937, when it had just 11 zebras, saved these animals from extinction. Now more than 750 roam the slopes.The picnic spots - oh my! We stopped to stretch our legs at Fonteinkloof picnic site and were bowled over. Neat, tidy and in excellent condition, like the rest of the park. Huge shady trees, excellent ablutions including an outside shower, turquoise swimming pool, clean braai facilities - this must be one of the premier picnic sites anywhere.Camping virgins, take note: 5 must-dos that'll help you survive (& enjoy) your first tripUnluckily for us, the small campsite was fully booked and we were limited to a day drive through the park, which was a bit like eating one small square of chocolate and having the slab taken away. We can't wait to go back and spend more time at Mountain Zebra National Park; there are 28,000ha to explore and some aardwolfs to find.Hands on hearts, we proud Lowvelders eat humble pie and admit we were completely floored and impressed by this wonderful little reserve. We are now its biggest fans and marketers. Friends, relatives and strangers are treated to a barrage of verbal and pictorial commentary and strongly urged to set their satnavs towards this marvellous destination. The uniqueness of our parks means large or small, they each deserve a visit. From R1,075 per night for 4-bed family cottage; R275 per night for camping. Phone 048-801-5700 or see sanparks.org/parks/mountain_zebraThe Cape mountain zebra, once dismissed as donkeys in football jerseys by a politician in the 1930s, is the largest mammal in South Africa to have come close to extinction hunting and poaching had reduced its numbers to just 91 animals by 1950. Happily, a 2014 report puts their numbers at 2,790 animals in the wild. Source: arkive.org and ace.nmmu.ac.za