It is understandable that the coach reached for the superlatives.In a match of skill, pace and technique on a level way beyond anything available elsewhere, Messi had stood out. Not just for his goals - magisterial as they were. But for his determination, his bravery, his refusal to be cowed by the half-dozen attempts by the Real Madrid defence to conduct onfield surgery on his limbs without the benefit of anaesthetic.His performance may well have been the most significant by an individual player since Roy Keane single-handedly pulled Manchester United from the brink in the 1999 Champions League semifinal in Turin, Italy. In-form Real in crunch clash with BarcaAnd no wonder Enrique was gushing in his acknowledgement at what he had just seen: the player's genius had diverted attention from the issues that had been stalking the manager all season.This was billed as the match that would end Barcelona's interest in the league this season, that would confirm that Spain's footballing epicentre has moved south. After all, the way they had succumbed to Juventus in the Champions League suggested Barca were a side in transition.Many blame Enrique for the tumble. His failure to replace the personnel who had carried the club to glory in the past decade has been reckoned close to treachery by many Catalan faithful.Enrique's buys had singularly failed to live up to heightened expectation. Andr Gomes is no Xavi Hern ndez, while J r my Mathieu is barely equipped to fill Carlos Puyol's boots. But where there is Messi, there is hope.The Argentine had been reckoned to be privately critical of Enrique's methods, despairing at the crumbling defence behind him. In the Bernabeu, he showed no hint of dissent. Driven by the urgent determination not to relinquish his team's grip on the title, he was simply unstoppable.Two goals, six dribbles, a constant hint of menace: he was responsible for everything productive about Barcelona's play. Including precipitating the sending off of Sergio Ramos, whose agricultural thrash at his knees rightly earned a red card.Messi's ability to seize the moment contrasted tellingly with the performance of the man who has come closest to challenge his position as the world's finest.Cristiano Ronaldo had nothing like his great rival's influence on the game. For once, "CR7" did not even get on the scoresheet.