Why, when established magazines and newspapers seem to be going bust, or prioritising digital over ink, are a slew of independent food magazines bucking the trend?I put this question to food-loving couple Oliver Barstow, co-owner/art director of Fourthwall Books, and cook/food blogger Karin Botta.The ''death of print" is now a redundant notion, says Barstow; in fact in independent publishing circles, this period is thought of as the golden age of print.story_article_leftThe so-called crisis led to a re-evaluation of what is good on paper."The focus has turned to excellent design and considered content, both of which lend themselves to print publications."Foodzines don't replace blogs or cook books, but they provide an opportunity for more independent commentary on food culture, says Botta."They're not designed to be useful or usable."Look at a magazine like Lucky Peach, for example, a "hyper-subversive journal, totally unusable for a cook, but a wild read".These ''foodieodicals" tend to be biannual or quarterly, ad-lite and have high design values.Jonathan Shaw, the owner of RAD Gallery/Bookshop in Johannesburg, which imports and stocks the widest selection of foodieodicals in South Africa, notes that these new zines are "not just cooking mags" - they are more like books.They feature "amazing photography, excellent journalism, decreased advertising and great design, and are printed on high quality, heavy paper." Generally published by friends and colleagues, these collectable periodicals often emerged from drunken dinner party conversations and are designed and edited on the side, while cheffing, bartending, farming, or designing for a real living.Nominated for the Design Museum's design of the year 2014 prize, The Gourmand is a fashionable biannual food magazine with a high-culture eye and a focus on art, fashion and literature.The publication is very London, which is to say that it's wry, designerly, and a little snooty. It's hip without being hipster and the content is serious without taking itself seriously.The photography, illustration and styling range from the bonkers to the sublime.The editors seem connected as well, calling on Stanley Tucci to write about film and food, graphic designer Milton Glaser on food label design and commissioning custom illustrations by artists such as Paul Davis.Although the magazine is really quite funny (see the snobbish slight of Pippa Middleton's "soon to be pulped" cookbook Celebrate) it carries a sense of sophistication.Maybe I'm a snob, so I do want to read an article called ''Liquid Soul" about the ''deeply important and ritualistically life-affirming" process of making stock.I do want to read more about artist Gordon Matta-Clark's before-Marije-Vogelzang-before-eating-design-was-eating-design restaurant called FOOD in 1970s SoHo.The restaurant-cum-performance served seasonal, local food cooked and served by down-and-out NYC artists.At one dinner Matta-Clark cooked a whole pig under the Brooklyn Bridge and served 500 pork sandwiches as part of a performance. Guests made necklaces from the meal's bones and wore them home.The Gourmand isn't all curatorial wankery though. The food connoisseur will have interesting reading about whack ingredients like salepi, a powder of pulverised orchid tubers made into a warm drink, horse meat, the politics of eating tiny ortolan birds, and ambergris, the "pungent and blisteringly expensive" sperm whale phlegm that King Charles II of England liked for breakfast with eggs.For people who make stock, those who think they should but don't, and other ponces. Published by University of California Press, Gastronomica: The Journal of Critical Food Studies is a well-established scholarly journal with a critical approach to food.A little unsexy (refreshing perhaps in such an achingly trendy publishing category), Gastronomica's philosophical, historical and creative writing is interested in: the politics of single-origin chocolate, mourning and funereal feasts, meal times at Tibetan monasteries, food blogs and ''post-feminist domesticity", Salvador Dal 's lobsters and restaurant menus from 19th century New York hotels.The journal can be hard going, although not all the articles are as long or turgid as you'd think. There are thoughtful cookbook reviews, memoirs, poems and some really meaty research essays exploring tough theoretical questions.For instance, have you ever wondered what Lithuanian philosopher Emmanuel Levinas's thoughts are on being for-the-other and bread? I'm glad you asked. In Emmanuel Levinas and the Ontology of Eating, David Goldstein asks, "How does eating make us who we are in the world?" How is food involved in the real process of becoming?Levinas is concerned with an ethics based on a responsibility for the other, and uses the example of bread to explain: "To give is to take the bread out of one's own mouth to nourish the hunger of another with one's own fasting."For Levinas it is our experience of hunger that makes it possible for us to fully see the other, to break bread for each other, rather than merely with them.For people who know what ontology is (and care) and are interested in subjectivity and its relationship to food. Buy 'The Gourmand' at RAD Gallery &amp; Bookshop, Johannesburg, or order online at thegourmand.co.uk. Buy 'Gastronomica: The Journal of Critical Food Studies' online at gastronomica.org.GATHER JOURNALA recipe-driven mag out of New York. Each issue has a theme like ''float", ''traces", ''cocoon", which is supposed to inspire a collection of recipes which are available on the Gather website. Buy at De Oude Bank Bakkerij, Stellenbosch and RAD Gallery &amp; Bookshop, Joburg, or order online at gatherjournal.com. DINER JOURNALThe handsome Andrew Tarlow from Williamsburg, owner of the restaurants Diner, Marlow &amp; Sons, Roman's, Reynard and the Wythe Hotel, publishes this good-looking quarterly. The mag speaks about the ethical connections between farmers, producers, retailers and consumers, which is the wholesome stamp of good-natured hipster foodies. Buy online at dinerjournal.com. KINFOLK MAGAZINEThis is so Portland Oregon it's actually Canadian. It's a magazine about what happy white people do when they feel they don't have to worry about anything except foraging for fresh berries and riding them back to their curated homes on their upcycles. Buy at Skinny Laminx &amp; The Book Lounge, Cape Town, and RAD Gallery &amp; Bookshop, Joburg, or order online at kinfolk.com. SWALLOW MAGAZINEThe highly awarded "anti-foodie" food magazine - the team of which treks off into the food wilderness in search of stories. Designer and founder James Casey makes sure the printed object takes full advantage of what the medium has to offer. For lovers of Fabrica's Colors magazine. Buy online at swallowmagazine.com. This article was originally published in The Times.