Exxaro, Eskom's largest coal supplier, was downgraded this week by ratings agency S&amp;P Global Ratings after Eskom's and South Africa's sovereign credit were downgraded to junk status last week. S&amp;P said that despite Exxaro's strong balance sheet and positive outlook Exxaro was vulnerable to Eskom because of its "concentrated customer profile". Since 2015, when Exxaro said it would aim to reduce its dependency on Eskom, after a dispute with Eskom over the closure of Arnot mine, the company's supply from tied mines has dropped to 7.9million tons in the year to December 2016 versus 9.3million tons in 2015. Seriti set to become key player in coalExxaro spokesman Mzila Mthenjane said both companies were aware of the risks involved in depending on each other so greatly and that the downgrade was "really collateral impact on Exxaro, not necessarily a reflection on Exxaro's weaknesses nor exposure to Eskom". "It's also a potential risk for Eskom to have such a large supplier as well - if, for example, Exxaro one day would be unable to meet the terms of the large volumes of coal supply to Eskom. We remain interdependent," Mthenjane said. S&amp;P believed that the government's ability to support Eskom had declined, which could impact cash flow from Eskom to Exxaro. An analyst, who did not want to be named, said: "Exxaro is the most critical [supplier to Eskom]. It's not to say it was the tied mines but more the cash flows from Eskom to Exxaro from my understanding, which includes commercial contracts as well." SA's sneezing fit gives SADC a headacheAnglo American, which this week announced a deal to dispose of its coal assets, has previously also reduced its exposure to Eskom. However, because Anglo is a larger, diversified global miner, like South32 (which also operates a tied mine), its exposure to Eskom is minimal. The new player, Seriti Resources, will now take up that exposure because the business will largely be based on supplying Eskom. In the meantime, the downgrade will not affect Seriti because the deal will take months to close. Exxaro's share price this week declined 7.1%, reflecting not only the impact of the downgrade, but also the drop in the iron-ore price, which would affect Kumba, analysts said. Exxaro has a 20% stake in Kumba's Sishen Iron Ore Company.