Straeuli has been desperate to contain the damage after Ackermann s decision to quit the Lions, who have rediscovered their roar under him in recent seasons.The Lions resurgence has been built around Ackermann s towering figure but the methods employed in their success are now institutionalised and won t depart with him.Key to this, however, is continuity in their coaching corps and the retention of their foremost talent. Most of the guys have been signed. It s only a few re-signings of players like Malcolm Marx [that are outstanding], Straeuli said.The threat of losing young marquee players is an anxiety not limited to the Lions. Straeuli believes continuity will offset the loss of the highly respected Ackermann. You want stability. Of course you have to look at innovation but that doesn t mean it is contained in a name, said Straeuli.He insisted they were not yet on the prowl for a successor. We are focusing on Super Rugby. We won t advertise either. The Lions, initially out of necessity, later by choice, have relied on young, pliable talent able to master the rigours of their high-tempo, high-energy game.There is also the deeply religious family culture that took root when the team was at its lowest ebb during Super Rugby expulsion in 2013. You have to understand the culture, Straeuli said about one of the boxes Ackermann s successor has to tick. If you consider CVs from the outside you have to ask do they know our business plan, the development plan and our strategy around the universities? There is a bigger picture, he said.If, like Ackermann, the new man also oversees the Currie Cup team, he ll have to be in place by July 26, when the competition kicks off.Should they source in-house, assistant coach Swys de Bruin should head the list of potential successors with defence coach JP Ferreira another candidate. De Bruin was instrumental in developing the Lions free-spirited approach.Straeuli says he has already received a lot of CVs from interested coaches. It s important for us to grow our coaches. It is unnecessary to kick these guys in the teeth. Having said that, I think it is also our duty to look outside at people who are familiar with the Lions culture. Now I want to keep the process calm. I don t want to start speculation. Agents have already started talking up their clients. As for Ackermann, Straeuli said the coach had sought an opportunity to grow. He wants to improve himself. He is big in stature, big in heart, big in belief and I really hope he comes back one day. 