 I m confident but the nerves are there, she says about taking on the works of the late, great Mama Africa. Some days I wake up thinking: Am I brave or am I stupid ? Zama, solo jazz vocalist as well as lead singer of the popular all girl jazz band Heels Over Head, is the first in her family to make a living from music.Both parents can carry a note (she recently discovered her dad sang tenor in the school choir) but for her, there has never been anything else.The best South African singer you've probably never heard ofIn grade 10 when it came to choosing her subjects it was her mother who decided whether she would follow the commerce or the science stream. I didn t care, says Zama. I agreed with whatever my mother said because I knew that after school I would be studying music. It wasn t what her parents had dreamed of for her they were hoping for a lawyer in the family but there was no talking her out of it. Plus, it helped that she had been doing gigs from the minute she left school, making money and contributing to the household. That was before the albums, the 2011 SAMA nomination (best contemporary jazz), the gigs in Swaziland and appearances on TV. They were like, it s okay, she knows what she is doing . Zama works full time at The Centre for Jazz and Popular Music at the University of KwaZulu-Natal as concert organiser and jazz centre administrator. It s a dream job for someone who lives and breathes music. I m lucky to wake up and do what I love. If I get a gig and take leave everyone understands. It would be very different if I was working in the law firm of my mother s dreams. WATCH the music video for Heels Over Head's track All The Things The Makeba project is a very precious one. My mom would play Miriam s LPs when I was a kid. I ve always admired her but until a few years ago I didn t realise the depth of her. In fact even people who know her as Mama Africa need to discover just how much she has done. There s far too much emphasis on The Click Song and Pata Pata. There is so much more to her than that. It s a modest show; just her, a pianist, drummer and bass guitarist. I had to get permission from the ZM Makeba Trust for the right to sing the songs. I had to fill in a pile of questions. One of them was: Will there be outfit changes ? and I thought, I don t even have one outfit yet !. But that s not a problem the only real worry is that she can t stop adding songs to the show.She is currently on 18 and counting. It s difficult. Sometimes a song comes to me in a dream, or I hear a song my mother loved. I can t leave anything out. I may have to rotate sets. She has given some of the songs a modern twist and some, like her favourite Makeba ballad, A Promise, have been kept as is. Zama herself is not into vocal gymnastics. I m a simple singer. I keep it pure and simple. It s rare that I m told that I remind people of someone. And I think that is a good thing. Tribute to Mama Africa, Rhumbelo Theatre, Cunningham Rd, Umbilo, 28 to 30 April; Allan Wilson Shellhole, 5 Durban Rd Pietermaritzburg, 14 May. Book through Computicket. This article was originally published in The Times.