How did you get into pottery?It has always been a part of me, and I'd say that it chose me. I majored in textile design at university, but I knew that as a designer I would somehow work with clay. I was fortunate to be exposed to textiles and ceramics at the same time, which helped me to master both mediums - yet I was torn between the two. During this time, I met my current business partner, we became friends and moved to Cape Town. That's when we started Imiso Ceramics - and the rest is history. Meet the maker: African textile designer Eva SonaikeHow would you define your style? Elegant, colourful and full of life, with a feminine touch. It reflects who I am.The best thing about working with clay? It's so easy to bond with the medium. Touching and smoothing out rough edges allows me to use my hands in the best way. Clay allows me endless possibilities.Do you know how each piece is going to look when you start out? I draw inspiration from what's around me, whether it's a bright yellow shaggy rug with gold trimming, a dress with an African-inspired graphic pattern or an elegant seafood display. Colour sometimes informs a shape and sometimes it's the other way around. Sometimes I know what to expect, but what comes out of the kiln can be different, especially when working with glazes. I love that element of surprise.Do you have a favourite piece from your work?I have a special bond with each piece and I love all of them equally.You focus on hand work rather than the wheel. How does this shape your work? I love hand building as it allows me to give each piece my full attention while giving it its own character. Hand building opens up endless artistic possibilities. I do work with other techniques on my bigger pieces, some are thrown and some are press-moulded, but I always finish off with the hand-pinching technique. Local ceramicists who inspire you? My business partner, Andile Dyalvane. He is a ceramic master and I'm blessed to be working with him. I love the way he pays attention to detail with each piece and the fact that he draws inspiration from our Xhosa culture is breathtaking. Katherine Glenday's work is sensual, and I can relate to it. I love the purity of her work and the material she uses.When you're not working in the studio, where will we find you? Spending time with my family, or having a conversation over a glass of wine with my girls. I love shopping, as well as going to exhibitions. Visit imisoceramics.co.za