The decision, confirmed by the KwaZulu-Natal education department on Thursday, comes after the Sunday Times asked about concrete foundations laid on the field at Inselele Lower Primary School in H-Section, Umlazi.The construction project caused consternation in the community, with allegations that the school principal, Dudu Makhanya, had colluded with the Mpisanes and the municipality to allow building on the school premises. A resident said: The principal and the school governing body were confronted about the construction but the principal could not give plausible answers, and ended up saying a day-care centre was being built. The resident reported the matter to an education department official, but construction continued during the school break.Inselele s deputy principal, who lives across the road from the school, refused to comment.She said she would ask Makhanya to contact the Sunday Times, but she did not do so. The flamboyant, politically connected Mpisanes, known for their lavish lifestyle, are the eThekwini municipality s biggest low-cost housing contractors, with many of their projects based in Umlazi.The couple did not return calls and messages seeking their comment. The provincial education department has not been able to contact Makhanya. Department spokesman Muzi Mahlambi confirmed that the brakes had been put on the project pending a full investigation. The project has been halted pending the outcome of our engagement with eThekwini. Due to other competing commitments, we could not finalise the matter. There [are] discussions around this matter to find a win-win solution. We are hopeful that when schools open and all role players are back from holidays, more light will be shed, he said.This week the municipality said it would consult with the education department to get a better understanding of the situation.But local councillor Sthenjwa Nyawose claimed credit for initiating the project and insisted it was legitimate. The municipality knows about this. The school governing body took a decision with the principal to build houses inside the school as it had a big yard that was unused. However, they breached some processes as they did not have the authority of the department. The project is not halted but is on hold, he said.