 The Style By SA collection in a nutshell: The Style by SA show was a sartorial crescendo of local talent. The exclusive capsule collection for Woolworths, featuring designs by Selfi, Rich Mnisi, Thebe Magugu, Young &amp; Lazy, Maria McCloy, Sol-Sol, AKJP and Pichulik, saw each designer bringing their own signature flavour to a very wearable collection of must-have items. For more info, visit woolworths.co.za Thebe Magugu's collection in a nutshell: Magugu's new collection combined languid feminine lines, structured masculine silhouettes, and subtle hiking references. From a silky, citrus printed wrap dress to crisp shirting with denim culottes, reworked classics were complete with carabiner hooks and colourful climbing-rope drawstrings. For more info, visit info@thebemagugu.co.zaEdda Gimnes floors the front row at SA Fashion Week Edda Gimnes' collection in a nutshell: The Norwegian designer presented her SS17 collection of playful cuts, monochromic and vibrant tones which included graphic digital illustrations she painted on each garment. For more info, visit edda-gimnes.com Young &amp; Lazy collection in a nutshell: A play on Islamic street culture was the undertone of this collection. The show featured longline hooded sweatshirts inspired by the traditional Islamic "Kurta" - a long shirt worn by Muslim men. Plaid shirts with loose-fitting trousers were styled with headscarves and fanny packs as the designer's vision of SA street style. For more info, visit youngandlazy.co.zaTransgender model makes her mark on SA's catwalks Black Coffee's latest collection in a nutshell: This collection was an ingenious amalgamation of African and Japanese style elements combined with Black Coffee's signature geometric patterns. Brimming with animal motifs, deconstructed Xhosa patterns, laser-cut appliqu and Japanese Kimono-inspired shapes, the focus was on gender-neutral garments in oversized, structured designs. For more info, visit blackcoffee.co.za Lalesso's latest collection in a nutshell: Inspired by the vivid colours and prints of East African Kanga cloth, Lalesso's summer essentials were transformed by organic patterns in bright reds, blues and greens that sprung to life on white, breathable fabrics. As autumn sets in, Lalesso's resort wear will have you dreaming of the floaty summer dresses and swimwear-clad days of next summer. For more info, visit lalesso.com Floyd Avenue's latest collection in a nutshell: Avenue proposes an effortless yet polished, urban aesthetic. Tailored cropped joggers with tassel-end drawstrings, topped with crisp T-shirts and light layers, came in an understated palette of burgundy, grey and olive, with subdued abstract, paisley and floral-inspired patterns blended with classic check. For more info, visit floydavenue.comThe best of SA Fashion Week Day 1 Ephymol's latest collection in a nutshell: Ephymol transformed traditional suiting with a collection defined by a carnival of spring colours, floral and abstract painterly prints. Masterfully tailored pieces and relaxed urban essentials were peppered with sequin and embroidered embellishments in pastel yellow, classic blues and earthy olive greens with pops of bright red. For more info, email ephymol14@gmail.com Jeanine Turner's collection in a nutshell: The designer sent a bundle of kids strutting down the runway in unique woollen garments in organic shapes, with textured embellishments. Turner's unconventional take on kids' wear, which was defined by distinctive felted fabrication and handcrafted textiles, forms part of her experimentation with textiles during her BTech in Fashion Design at Durban University of Technology. For more info, email infoturnerstudio@gmail.com