Molefe told the Sunday Times that he was "creating something" with radio and TV presenter Anele Mdoda, and was in negotiations with DStv's Mzansi Magic. "We will search for the best talent for the television shows for Touch HD television. The first project can be expected in July and is titled Love is Timeless and will consist of bringing back '90s music stars to South Africa, such as [American R&amp;B singer] Brandy."This week the radio mogul launched his digital radio station, Touch HD, with a presenter lineup that includes journalist and presenter Tim Modise, radio personality Glen Lewis and TV personality Thembisa Mdoda."I want to make Touch HD the biggest digital platform in Africa," Molefe said.He resigned from SABC radio station MetroFM last year and teamed up with Gareth Cliff on a 24-hour online music channel, Touch Central. But the partnership lasted only eight months before Molefe announced he was going it alone."I never left Cliff Central - it was a 50/50 partnership; people were confusing the word 'central'. Touch Central was mainly music while Cliff Central is talk," said Molefe. "I got tired saying I don't work for Cliff Central. Gareth and I ... agreed it was better if I branch out."Touch HD was the platform for local celebrities to be heard, he said."My first interview when we broadcast on Monday is with Riky Rick. They wanted to silence him and switched off his mic when he accepted his award ... because he [spoke] the truth, and we're giving him the platform to be heard," he said.He was referring to the Metro FM Awards in February, when Riky Rick (real name Rikhado Makhado) told the audience that 90% of music on the radio was "trash".But his tirade was interrupted when his microphone was cut."I relate to Riky Rick. When you question the system, you're kicked out," Molefe said.Molefe had worked as a MetroFM drive-time presenter until he resigned last June following his suspension. While at MetroFM, Molefe interviewedicons such as Jay-Z and Akon."I remember when I was suspended. After two days without a reason ... I picked up the phone ... and the answer I got was: 'It's political.'" Molefe was suspended after an alleged physical altercation with a fellow staff member, and refusing to read adverts on air - allegations he denied."Rejection is direction. If I didn't leave, there wouldn't be Touch HD."Touch HD is about building African content; I want platforms such as Google to know Touch HD is for Africans and it's black-owned," said Molefe.