The Belgian Triple is an unassuming gem that can get away with its location due to its proximity to an open courtyard complete with a statue of Poseidon. You'll even forget that you're in a mall while sitting inside, thanks to the light and airy atmosphere, bright yellow chairs, and beer-drinking paraphernalia adorning the walls.What sets this place apart is its focus on imported European craft beers. There's something special about having a focused selection, especially when it's 14 Belgian beers with fun names like Delirium Tremens, La Guillotine, Gulden Draak, and the cherry-flavoured Kriek Liedemans - all of which you can try in 100ml samples.Trendy spot boasting a dedicated beer garden joins Braam's foodie lineupThe Belgian Triple doesn't serve your usual pub fare - no burgers or pregos on this menu. Instead it's packed with Belgian favourites beautifully presented and far fancier than you'd expect from a beer tavern. Try gooey baked Camembert, wrapped in bacon and lashed with a sweet yet tangy cranberry jelly, and a few cheese or lamb kroketten on the side.The menu caters to different levels of drinking-induced hunger. If you just need a snack (borrelhapjes), order bitterballen (small meatballs), or garlic pesto green olives. If you'd prefer to share a few smaller dishes in a Belgian-style tapas (voorgerechten), have the tartare of fresh and smoked salmon with quinces and a vinaigrette made from the beer Kriek Liedemans.Or if you want to go straight for the big stuff (hoofgerecht) you might try Lucifer beer-braised beef brisket, slaw, fries and whole grain mustard; or combine their hops with salads that have radicchio, braised leeks and pears as ingredients.Don't skip the specialteiten, where you'll find the famous moules en frites - made with their house beer, Martens Pilsner. The beer adds depth of flavour to the rich, garlicky cream sauce made with freshly chopped herbs. It has just the right seasoning for the salty sea juices from the plump, perfectly cooked mussels.</img>The Belgian Triple's famous 'moules en frites' made with house beer Martens Pilsner. Image: SuppliedThe Belgian Triple's famous 'moules en frites' made with house beer Martens Pilsner. Image: SuppliedWhat to eat: Everything - it really depends on how hungry you are. Grab a bunch of borrehapjes (snacks) while you make up your mind.What to drink: Belgian beer. Pick a name you like, or a pretty beer coaster, or ask the waitress.Who you'll see: Locals who love beer as much as their "ma".Must-visit shop in the area: Try a few at the Zeppelin craft brewery.Don't leave without: Having dessert. Get in on the waffle action or try the Belgian chocolate brownie, packed with rich cocoa flavours and with a smoky walnut undertone. It's baked a little underdone to utilise pockets of warm, still melting chocolate paired with vanilla ice cream.Soundtrack: Adult contemporary rock.Details: Olympus Drive and Achilles Road, Pretoria. This article was originally published in The Times.