As usual, Jose Mourinho has come up with all manner of different excuses to explain their troubles that is, when he accepts that the club has been experiencing troubles.We run through four areas that are costing the club dear in their battle against the other big hitters in the top six Chelsea, Tottenham, Liverpool, Manchester City and Arsenal.If the Premier League was decided on the percentage of shots converted in goals, United would be battling relegation.It is no surprise to see league leaders Chelsea top the shot conversion table, with more than 14% of their efforts ending up in the back of the net. Arsenal, Liverpool, Manchester City and Spurs are not far behind, while Mourinho s side are floundering among the likes of Hull, Sunderland and Middlesbrough.Indeed, the fact that Ander Herrera and Paul Pogba had efforts come off the woodwork in the 1-1 draw against Everton this week was reflective of United s season as a whole.The club have hit the crossbar or post 18 times this season, costing them a potential 11 points in the process. Pogba leads the way with five attempts off the woodwork. Turn those efforts into goals and United could be challenging for the title.It is an accepted requisite for any team attempting to finish in the top four that a near-20-goal per season striker is a must. Chelsea have Diego Costa, Spurs have Harry Kane, Arsenal have Alexis Sanchez, Manchester City have Sergio Aguero and United are no different, with Zlatan Ibrahimovic proving a revelation this season.The Swede has scored 16 Premier League goals to place himself among the division s leading scorers.United have no player to fill the berth of No2 goalscorer. Juan Mata s six league goals are paltry compared to almost all other top-six sides (only Manchester City find themselves in a similar position of over-reliance on one man).Gone are the days of fortress Old Trafford. United may only have lost one match at home all season, but their tally of nine draws is considerably higher than any other team in the league.Spurs have dropped four points at White Hart Lane all campaign, while Chelsea have seen just six points go amiss at Stamford Bridge.Mourinho s men have let a huge 21 points slip from their grasp at Old Trafford.It goes without saying that not every incoming transfer is going to hit it off straight away. But considering the 157-million outlay last summer the second highest of the Premier League s top six clubs United are not getting bang for their buck.Pogba heads the incoming list with his world record transfer fee of 89-million from Juventus. The Frenchman has shown glimpses of genius, but has not kicked on in the manner that his monster fee suggested.More than 26-million was spent on Henrikh Mkhitaryan, who was omitted for much of the first half of the season. The Armenian has been seen more regularly in recent months, but Mourinho dropped him for the recent draw against Everton after conceding he was not happy with his performances.Is Mourinho a spent force? It is a question that has been raised with increased frequency this season as the United manager has lurched from strange outburst to strange outburst.As well as serving his own touchline ban earlier in the season for two misconduct charges and resuming his usual verbal battles with fellow managers, Mourinho has appeared increasingly irate in recent months, directing his anger at all and sundry.This week has seen Mourinho decide that the best way of getting the best out of Luke Shaw is to repeatedly humiliate him. Perhaps it is genius man-management. Or perhaps it is indicative of a manager feeling the pressure and selecting his punchbag as he starts to lose the plot.