Q. I travel to Europe every year but the schlep of obtaining a visa each time is really taxing and time consuming. Is there a way to obtain a multiple-entry Schengen visa that is valid for a number of years and how do I go about obtaining this? - Wayne MichaelA. The Uniform Schengen Visa is a permit issued by one of the Schengen Area Member Countries to transit or reside in that country and the Schengen countries for a maximum of 90 days every six-month period starting from the date of entry.Some countries, such as Germany and Italy, may allow a visa of up to a year in some circumstances. You do not mention which country you visit and as there are variations I suggest you enquire from that country's embassy. If you go to different countries on different trips, you probably have to apply each time. Travel tips: Schengen visas & airplane ticket refunds Q. I travel on a South African passport. We intend to visit Europe and the UK in September. I will apply for a Schengen and a UK visitor visa. While in Europe, we intend to spend a day in Gibraltar, travelling by road from Spain.Does the UK visitor visa cover me for entrance to Gibraltar? I have always obtained a Schengen visa, free, as my wife travels on a British passport. With the Brexit upset is this still possible? - Jimmy SmithA. The final effects of Brexit are two years away, and at present your wife's British passport and your Schengen visa will get both of you into Gibraltar. Although Gibraltar is not a Schengen member country, try to list it as one of the places you will visit when applying.As a general rule, those who require a visa for entry to the UK also require a separate visa for entry to Gibraltar.Persons who hold a Schengen visa and intend to enter Gibraltar from Spain should also take steps to ensure that they will be able to return to Spain once they have left Gibraltar, ie a multiple-entry Schengen visa with a minimum remaining validity of seven days. Travel tips: Do South Africans need a visa to visit Bali?Q. I would appreciate some feedback as to the granting of Zimbabwe visas. I heard recently that if you were born in Zimbabwe and travelling back there on a foreign passport there is no Zimbabwean requirement to purchase a visa.I have made some enquires at travel agencies, however they seem to be unaware of this. So is it just wishful thinking or "fake news"? - Mike YoungA. You do not mention what passport you hold, and it depends on that alone. South African passport holders and a number of other countries' citizens do not need a visa for Zimbabwe. Another group do and will be granted it for a fee at the point of entry. A third group of nationals have to apply for a visa before travelling. Most would have to pay US$30 on entry; British and Irish passport holders pay US$55. Take the required cash, there are no card facilities. There is a full list on victoriafalls-guide.net/zimbabwe-visa.html. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za