ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Not an easy few weeks for anyone, but certainly not for you. The problem is that you're the most impatient person in the universe and the universe, in its turn, is playing games with you. Take a seat. List your requirements. Tell yourself you deserve the best, and then trust the process. That's about as much as anyone can expect of you. E xpect delays, confusion and general mismanagement.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Don't invest any of your cash for the next three weeks. And don't feel bad about it. Money is the only thing that really makes you feel safe, so hang on to it. And set plans in motion to make more. The planets are with you, but not behaving quite as they should. Do what you know how to do and trust yourself to do your best. If you can hold on to your relationships, you will deserve some pampering.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)If you ever had any tendencies towards lunacy, they'll reveal themselves this week. And do not assume that everybody thinks like you. The truth is, you can create genuine miracles now, but only if you're focused enough to manage your madness. If that makes sense... So relax. Treat yourself exactly as you'd like to be treated. Fascinating discoveries could change your life this week.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Tension is taking its toll on your body. Make some time to pamper yourself, just enough to remind your inner sulker how wonderful and deserving you are. The problem is that you're taking your anger out on anyone who wanders past. Which means arguments all round. Bad idea. Rage makes wrinkles. Besides, if you sit quietly for a moment, your angels will whisper in your ear.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Big changes are lurking in the wings. Emotions will be disrupted for a while, but that's never a good reason to stop the process. There'll be a yearning for more freedom and a redefining of boundaries. So if you have to let go of what you have, do it with generosity and good cheer. And don't you dare complain about being lonely. Get to know yourself. You might even like what you find.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)How about a week off? Do you even remember how it felt to gaze out the window, without a care in the world? Don't laugh. Life's lessons are just as much about smiling as frowning; about receiving as giving. Try this: Imagine all your guilt being poured into a large bag. Seal the bag and stash it. It'll still be there any time you want it back. Coming soon - love and passion. Whichever hits first.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Just because no one can think straight doesn't mean this is not a good week. In fact, you can't remember being in such a great mood. The energies of courage, vitality and sensuality are oozing from your pores. Go ahead. Be as wicked as you like. The universe will smile on you with indulgent adoration. Tuesday's full moon is in your sign, complete with offers of new love, money, gifts and fun.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Make a decision to start your relationships all over again. Past sorrows and unresolved disappointments are killing what could be a wonderful love affair. There's never been a better time to dump the garbage. Think about learning something new. That fabulous mind is getting bored. Give it something to chew on. Trust yourself to make the right choice. You are inherently wise.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Enjoying yourself? Excellent. But it's not the time to get smug. How about flowers for the sweetheart? Or resolving those ancient, stupid arguments with the family? And what about giving your general health some thought? Try a bit of good food and a round of exercise. Come now. There's always more to life than you think there is. And it's nearly always much more fun than it looks.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)Getting assertive? As impressive as this may feel, take note of the difference between standing up for yourself and bullying the vulnerable. That aside, you're suddenly aware of your desirability. Everybody wants you - and are willing to do what it takes to get you. Have fun if you like, but not at the risk of broken hearts. You don't want other people's misery on your conscience.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)So you thought your love life was in peak condition? Maybe it is to some extent. The issue is how much of your past still haunts you? How many pieces of baggage are you still lugging around? Book a weekend away with the sweetheart. Lovers aren't mind-readers, you know. They need to be told you care. Tuesday's romantic full moon is the perfect moment to plan your delights.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)What's going on? Your world suddenly appears demanding and pedantic. Why are you being called on to perform tedious tasks you usually manage to avoid? You may be feeling hemmed in by this strange new energy but, handled well, it will bring gains to career and finances. So, don't palm off your workload. Take it on the chin. You'll be impressed with yourself. Empowering stuff.