The father of three has not devoted time to nurturing the friendships he once enjoyed, because of work and family life. It has left the 42-year-old wanting in the friends department.But he's not alone in his social disconnection. International studies suggest that work time, wife time and dad duties are robbing an increasing number of middle-aged men of important bonding time with mates.A study of Australian men - commissioned by men's movement Movember - found that 25% of those surveyed had nobody outside their immediate family they could rely on, and nearly one in four men experienced low levels of social support. This put them at risk of social isolation.South African psychologists said the findings reflected a similar problem here, one some had seen in patients. They warned that a lack of meaningful friendships could lead to depression, suicidal tendencies, domestic and public violence - including road rage - and physical illness such as high blood pressure.The Movember study said the phenomenon was an "unspoken" one. "These men often lack the skills, the pathways and frequently the drive to remedy their lack of social connection and instead tend to bear the misery and shame of their situation with a stoic, masculine pride."Garron Gsell, head of the Men's Foundation and head of the Movember campaign in South Africa, said social isolation among middle-aged men was a big concern."Many men we've spoken to don't actually realise how shallow their relationships have become until they face a significant challenge, such as a bereavement, breakdown of a relationship, fatherhood or loss of employment, for example - that is of course when good friends are needed the most."There are expectations on men to be career-minded, ambitious and good partners and fathers. As a result of these pressures, a lot of men put friendships lower down on the list. Seeing your mates can be viewed as a bit of a luxury."Gsell said men should socialise regularly to give themselves "the best chance of being happy and healthy".Akhalwaya's last male bonding session was more than a year ago. "I have no male friends to confide in. I am my own company. If I need to confide in someone, it's usually my mom. It does get lonely," he said.A divorced financial manager who did not want to be named said he lost his social circle during his marriage because of personal and professional obligations. But the 45-year-old father of two has reclaimed his social network, and plays soccer weekly. "Initially, with the euphoria of marriage and newborn kids, I didn't feel lonely. But as the years passed, not doing male things with friends, the loneliness did set in."My ex-spouse also worked, we shared household chores and kids duties ... If I wasn't spending [time] with her and the kids, it was akin to neglect."Clinical psychologist Zamo Mbele said: "This is a real problem in South Africa. What we are really concerned about are the effects. The effect of social isolation on mental health and wellness can be really devastating. The living standards experience of these men then decreases significantly because of this isolation. It can get as severe as contributing to mental illness - mild, moderate and severe depression, which can lead to suicide."Social isolation is complex; people often don't see it as a problem. We very often see isolation, specifically with men, manifesting itself in the South African population."Mbele said isolation could play out violently. "Violence and isolation go hand in hand when it comes to men. The two coupled together is a dangerous cocktail. Poor psychological state manifests itself in poor physical state, like high blood pressure."Psychologist Dr Lori Eddy has seen men suffering with social isolation . "It's not the main reason they come to me. Many don't realise it themselves but as I probe during our sessions I find that loneliness presents itself because of the lack of male bonding. It's difficult to spend quality time with friends because of home and work life. Often the friendships that do exist are superficial."Men who are socially isolated tend to get depressed. When they feel better, the friendships don't exist anymore. Men are three times more likely to commit suicide, so social bonds are a big buffer against anxiety and depression."Govendersu@sundaytimes.co.za