Durban s magnificent Botanic Gardens is hosting an Easter egg hunt for children aged between four and 14. They will be given an eggsplorer map to a trail where giant Easter eggs have been carefully hidden. Once the intrepid adventurers have located all the eggs, they may collect their chocolate surprise. There is a different hunting area for little ones between one and three years. Parents must accompany children on the searches that take place throughout the day.Aside from the hunting down eggs, kids can have fun with cupcake decorating, sand art, ceramic painting, bunny petting and carnival games.When: Saturday, April 15 and Sunday, 16 April, 8.30am to 3pm. Where: Durban Botanic Gardens, book through Quicket.Where to buy the very best hot cross buns this EasterRain Farm, a 300 hectare wildlife sanctuary 15 minutes from Ballito, is laying on the Easter fun with a kiddies buffet and a build-your-own-burger stand, following on from their Easter egg hunt that begins at 11.30am. Doting parents get the Happy Harvest Table buffet for R180. For the thrill-seekers, helicopter flips over the farm are also on offer.When: Sunday, 16 April, 11:30am - 3pm.Where: Rain Farm Game &amp; Lodge. Visit Rain Farm Game &amp; Lodge or call 032-815-1050A kiddies Easter egg hunt is taking place at Montclair Mall. Children need to register and then search high and low for tokens that can be exchanged for Easter treats. There is also a golden egg carefully hidden somewhere in the mall. The lucky child who finds it will win a massive hamper of Easter treats. Other activities include face painting, balloon bending and sand art.When: Saturday, 15 April, 10am 2pm.Where: Montclair Mall. Visit their Facebook page for more details.No ordinary hot cross buns: 3 easy recipes for Easter treats with a twistuShaka Marine World is holding its annual colossal Easter egg hunt where children have just one hour to find as many of the hidden tokens as possible and there are 10,000 of them. Each token gets you a marshmallow egg and each child gets a treasure map with clues to the eggs and information on the animals they will see in the park. There are also games and quizzes at different spots in the aquarium and a chance to win more eggs at uShaka Kids World.When: Saturday, April 15 and Sunday April 16, 7am to 8am.Where: uShaka Marine World. Get tickets online at ushakamarineworld.co.za.The Royal Natal Yacht Club is holding a Family Day that will include an Easter egg hunt, a jumping castle and an Easter bonnet competition. Plenty of braai specials will be on offer too.When: Monday, April 17, 11am 4.30pm.Where: Royal Natal Yacht Club. For more info, visit Royal Natal Yacht Club or phone 031-301-5425.