All lousy leaders leave lousy legacies that societies have to clean up. It can take time, but the job can only begin when they go and it is clear that Zuma has nothing left to offer South Africa. He is crippled as a leader and totally bereft of policy. His recent cabinet reshuffle not only cleared out a solid team at the National Treasury and replaced it with something infinitely inferior, but the South African government borrows billions of rands every month. Every working day the government pays around R500-million in interest on its debts.That money we borrow is what builds infrastructure and pays the salaries of Zuma s bloated public service. Now, because of the S&amp;P ratings downgrade that followed President Junk s reshuffle, it ll cost us more, in interest, to borrow.And to make matters worse, with Fitch Ratings also downgrading us on Friday, it will now be illegal for some big funds to lend to us. And that welfare money that gets paid by the Social Security Agency of South Africa to over 10million people every month? That s borrowed too.Ratings agencies work for the people we borrow from. They re a credit check. Can South Africa, the lenders want to know, pay back what we lend it? Cry Stuff the ratings agencies all you like, but if you don t want them in your life then stop borrowing money from their clients. For South Africa, that is just not possible. We are addicted to debt and it s got much, much worse under Zuma. We borrow on foreign markets just to pay the interest on the money we borrowed in the first place. Slowly, slowly, the effects of the downgrades will eat away at our finances. With every passing day we will spend more to achieve less until we are forced to ask for help from either the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund. Zuma foolishly believes the financial arrangements within the Brics will bail him out when the time comes, but no one is going to rescue a reckless debtor for free. The Chinese, who take their investments seriously, right to the top of their government, are already deeply unimpressed at what has been done to their assets in South Africa. The value of Standard Bank, China s biggest equity investment in Africa, has (again) taken a huge and direct hit because of Zuma s determination to control the National Treasury.The only way out of this economic trap is political enlightenment, but there s little sign of that. I watched in astonishment a press conference at the Treasury the other day when new Deputy Finance Minister Sfiso Buthelezi interjected to explain to the assembled media how this thing called inclusive growth would work.You see, he explained, the government spends a lot on infrastructure and we must ensure that black business gets an increasing share of that. Or words to that effect. That was the limit of his grasp of what will become, in public at least, the Treasury s new policy direction.But merely directing the government spend to black business has been policy for years, and to very little macroeconomic effect. What will change now? And inclusive growth without the growth is just useless.How will Buthelezi help the economy grow? How will he ensure black businesses that get contracts from the state actually get paid? If Buthelezi, who has an economics degree and a stint as chairman of rail agency Prasa behind him, is, on that basis, an intellectual pillar of some sort at the Treasury, then God help his new boss, Malusi Gigaba. I cannot begin to imagine the man I watched last week on an international road show trying to squeeze R100-billion out of institutional investors in New York.Apartheid wasn t defeated by the struggle , brave though it was. It was defeated by the markets, which simply priced apartheid out of existence. The National Party, which had made Afrikaners relatively rich, then made them relatively poor, and they rebelled.Zuma has now set in motion an economic calamity for his supporters, the people to whom democracy has offered jobs and a degree of prosperity. He is now going to make those same voters poor, and he will suffer the consequences.