There is an elephant in the room during all our political discussions, and no one wants to talk about it.The content of that metaphorical idiom elephant in the room , our electoral system and what we can do to instil electoral accountability in the country is being constantly avoided during political meetings, protest rallies, sit-ins and debates across the spectrum, including in parliament, even by new organisations such as SaveSA and the 101 ANC veterans.No one votes for poverty, infant mortality, illiteracy, inadequate healthcare, substandard housing and nonexistent municipal services. But when corruption is out of control, that is what the people get.To be blunt, all the talk about South Africa standing at a political and economic cliff can be attributed to the continuing irrelevance of our electoral system, the proportional representation system. For almost 23 years now, our electoral system has perpetuated the lack of accountability, causing our country to spiral towards political instability, economic incoherence, corruption and voter alienation.You see, in any democratic system, there must be a mechanism in place to remove those elected to serve the people by those same people who voted for them if they do not want them to continue in public office. But this is not so in our country.Twenty-three years into our democracy, we are supposed to have an electoral system that offers genuine accountability that produces a clearly identifiable representative. This is not the case. All our political leaders President Jacob Zuma, Mmusi Maimane, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, General Bantu Holomisa, the Rev Kenneth Meshoe and many others are accountable to their parties and a few political hacks who put them on slates, not to the millions of voters who go to the polls. Every time there is political or economic fallout from an Nkandla, the social grants debacle, the recent cabinet reshuffle, calls for Zuma to resign, political assassinations, economic decline and even Helen Zille s Twitter fiasco, there is huge outcry. Blame our political woes on the electoral system and its lack of a built-in accountability mechanism. The rising anger against our political class is justified. This anger is certainly not against our democracy it is against the politicians who fail to govern and deliver after getting elected.Accountability is essential to make sure that institutions are responsive to the will of the people. We all know that resilient democracies need institutional checks and balances. They need these mechanisms to protect against impunity, corruption and abuse of power.As citizens we are practising our accountability every day. At work we have performance contracts and appraisals. Our deliverables must be satisfactory in order to keep our jobs, let alone get bonuses and promotions. At home we pay our bills on time, otherwise our services will be suspended until we settle those bills. In each situation, when we break the rules we face the wrath of law enforcement agencies.So, where is the accountability for political parties and the government? In a democracy, governments are accountable to parliament. Parliamentarians are supposed to be elected by constituents to oversee the government. But in our system, parties put forward a slate of candidates in ranked order for each constituency. Accountability has been outsourced to political parties, after all, according to our system, the number of seats given to a party depends on its proportion of support at the polls, with the party choosing its public representatives from its nominations list. Over the years, our politicians and bureaucrats have failed to realise adequately that they are accountable and responsible for their actions and official conduct to the people, not their parties.This is the time for public officials to lead by example, and for the people to wake up, lance the boil and rise from the stupor. Nothing except a fundamental reform of our electoral system and the adoption of a different system will stop the kind of political blood-letting we are seeing. I like the mixed-member proportional, or two-vote, system used in Germany, Mexico, New Zealand, Scotland and Wales, wherein voters cast two votes: one to elect directly an individual member to serve as a representative and a second for a party or parties to fill seats in the legislature, which are allocated according to the proportion of the share of the votes that they receive.This system is easy to understand and provides an easy and speedy way to vote and count the results. It s already being used in our municipalities. There are several advantages to this system. One is that this mixed system preserves the connection between members and their constituencies, and creates accountability, something that the proportional system in its pure form fails to do.We urgently need the formation of an electoral task team to investigate and research how we can implement this hybrid electoral system from the 2019 elections.The recommendations of the task team should be tested in a referendum to gauge if others also think it is the best way to reform. Mkhondo runs The Media Writers Firm, a content development and reputation management hub