We put out a call to our readers - parents with their children - to be part of a panel of tasters. 15 adults and 15 kids came together on a Saturday morning in Joburg to conduct the taste test.Only two supermarket groups, Checkers and Woolworths, offer readymade children's meals. The products from the two supermarkets were matched so that the tasters were testing like with like.Chefs from HTA Culinary School in Randburg weighed the products before preparing them as per the instructions on the packaging - heating them in a microwave on high for between 1 and 2 minutes. The tasting panel was presented with each of the products 'naked', without any branding or packaging.Auditor Frederika Pardoe was on hand to monitor the process, from removing the packaging to numbering the products, overseeing the process in the kitchen and adding up the scores on the score sheets on which the tasters entered their opinions. Free-range chicken breast in a cheesy sauce with broccoli, corn &amp; nutty brown rice; 200g (actual weight of samples varied between 208g and 226g); R29.99.Judges' comments:Kgaogelo and Neo, 7: The chicken was well cooked and the overall meal was nice and tasty. I will definitely be buying this for Neo.Revina and Jayden, 10: Much better presentation and appearance than the other sample. However, it needs more seasoning.Mohini and Suvhan, 12: The chicken was too tough and chewy. Please blend the broccoli because it was too chunky and kids don't like whole broccoli.Shriya, 7: It is quite thick but I liked the broccoli pieces and tangy cheese taste.Keratilwe, 8: The chicken was tender, the texture of broccoli was well cooked and I even asked for seconds.Which supermarket makes SA's cheesiest ham & pineapple pizza?Chicken, broccoli &amp; rice with creamy cheese sauce; 200g (actual weight 217g to 224g); R35.99.Judges' comments:Neo, 7: It was nice but when I looked at it, it didn't look nice.Shriya 7: Please add more broccoli pieces as it was a bit shredded, and a little more cheese on top.Stephen, Liam, 11 and Ryan, 9: A bit bland with a texture similar to baby food.Teboho with Khaya, 8: Teboho: My child doesn't like broccoli so the appearance was not appealing. She tasted one spoon and said it was OK.Troy, 10: It's a bit squeezie and wasn't too cheesy.Noah, 8: It looked bland and the pieces were too small but quite tasty.Jordyn with Cruz, 6: Jordyn: This doesn't look nice. Kids don't like broccoli ... and it needs more colour. Creamy, cheesy cauliflower sauce with macaroni, topped with cheddar; 200g (actual weight of samples varied between 203g and 222g); R29.99.Judges' comments:Bavini, 9: The cheese was smooth and great and the mac was nice and soft.Liam, 11, and Ryan, 9: The sauce was a bit "sandy" in texture but the pasta was well cooked with a nice cheesy flavour.Darryl and Hannah, 8: Hannah said the sauce was "bumpy" and a little grainy. Darryl: "I think the portion could be bigger."Keratilwe, 8: "It looks delicious and tastes good but doesn't have salt."Macaroni cheese; 200g (actual weight of samples varied between 216g and 229g); R35.99.Judges' comments:Selvin, 9: "Too much cheese, the macaroni and sauce great."Jayden, 10: "It's not creamy enough and the sauce is very thin."Keratilwe, 8: "The macaroni is soft and does not stick to the teeth."Hellen, 8: "It looks very watery but it is nice and smooth."Shriya, 7: "Not bad, but not that good." Free-range beefy Bolognese sauce with wholewheat spaghetti topped with cheddar; 200g (actual weight of samples varied between 209g and 224g); R29.99.Judges' comments:Neo, 7: It tasted delicious and looked yummy and I would ask my mom to buy it.Tumang and Dipuo, 10: Tumang: spaghetti is tender but a bit oily and it lacked seasoning. Dipuo: it looked so delicious and tasted very nice. The texture was delightful.Shriya, 7: It tastes a bit sour.Troy, 10: I loved it.Stephen, Liam, 11 &amp; Ryan, 9: it's a bit heavy on pasta, with too little sauce.Revina: It looked like a homemade pasta dish but taste didn't live up to the look, and tasted processed.Where to buy South Africa's creamiest, cheesiest macaroni cheeseFresh spaghetti with savoury beef mince; 205g (actual weight 217g to 224g); R35.99.Judges' comments:Ketso, 8: I did not like the taste and there was no salt. There was too much tomato paste.Dipuo, 10: The texture was not that great and it had lots of tomato.Noah, 8: It was nice with the carrots.Avanthi: The diced carrots means it's easier for the kids to push aside.Stephen: The sauce needs to be more saucy.Revina: It's too acidic and has a strong tomato flavour.Jordyn: Tastes a lot like tomato paste.Free-range beef mince topped with buttery sweet potato mash; 200g (actual weight of samples varied between 210g and 246g); R29.99.Judges' comments:Hellen: This is delicious and very tasty. It has enough of everything.Teboho and Khaya, 8: The appearance was appealing and my child enjoyed the taste. I would definitely buy it.Hannah, 8: The corn is crunchy and it tastes sweet.Bavini, 9: The mash looks green and it tastes sweet.Shriya, 7: Tastes delicious and I love it.Neo, 7: It's very nice and I would ask mummy to buy it every day for me.Savoury beef mince &amp; veggies with creamy potato mash; 220g (samples weighed 235g to 251g); R35.99.Judges' comments:Jaclyn, 6: The mince tastes good but the peas overpower the dish.Ketso, 8: It looks very nice but the veggies were too soft.Bavini, 9: The mash was too sweet and I did not like the tomato skin.Shriya, 7: It was OK. The vegetable flavours are good and the mince is tasty. I don't like potato.Dipuo, 10: It looked so nice but there is too much sweetcorn and peas. Chicken &amp; sweet potato mash with peas, carrots &amp; gravy; 200g (actual weight of samples varied between 211g and 229g); R35.99.Judges' comments:Jayden, 10: This smelt and looked good but did not taste as good as it looked.Bavini, 9: The mash and gravy were great.Ketso, 8: The mash was very nice and soft, the chicken delicious. Veggies were slippery.Tumang and Dipuo, 10: Tumang: great crunchy veggies, chicken soft and tender and I'd buy this for my daughter. Dipuo: I'm not really a fan of veggies except carrots.Stephen: Kids' Sunday lunch in a container, a winner for my 11-year-old but my younger son said that the peas were a tiny bit hard.Which supermarket makes SA's tastiest own-brand tomato sauce?Free-range chicken breast pieces with bacon &amp; sweetcorn in a cheese sauce topped with sweet potato mash; 200g (actual weight of samples varied between 224g and 245g); R29.99.Judges' comments:Tracey, 10: I don't like it!Noah, 8: There's a nice combination of chicken and bacon.Avanthi: There's too much potato so it could be too filling for the kids to finish. The colour of the potato is a bit off-putting.Hannah, 7: The bacon is very chewy and very strong tasting.Revina &amp; Jayden, 10: Revina: appearance is quite average. Jayden: it needs some colour.