Q. How will the new rules banning laptops from cabin luggage on flights from some Middle Eastern countries to the US and UK affect South African travellers? - James PlumA. Essentially, the ban means that passengers flying from certain countries to the US and UK are no longer allowed to carry electronic devices with them if they are larger than a cellphone. The ban applies to any device larger than 16cm long, 9.3cm wide or 1.5cm deep on flights.The US gives a list of examples, which includes laptops, tablets, e-readers, cameras, portable DVD players, electronic game units and travel printers or scanners. If you want to carry any such items to your destination, they will have to be packed into and checked with your luggage in the cargo hold. Travel tips: can I bring food brought abroad at duty-free into South Africa?The rules introduced by the US and the UK are slightly different, as the US ban affects only certain national carriers from those listed countries, while the British ban affects all airlines flying from the listed countries.For UK-bound travellers, it affects those passengers flying from Turkey; Lebanon; Jordan; Egypt; Tunisia and Saudi Arabia.The nine airlines affected by the US ban are Royal Jordanian, EgyptAir, Turkish Airlines, Saudi Arabian Airlines, Kuwait Airways, Royal Air Maroc, Qatar Airways, Emirates and Etihad Airways. The ban applies to all the listed airlines flying to the US from the following airports: Queen Alia International, Amman, Jordan Cairo International Airport, Egypt Ataturk Airport, Istanbul, Turkey King Abdulaziz International, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia King Khalid International, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia Kuwait International Airport Mohammed V International, Casablanca, Morocco Hamad International, Doha, Qatar Dubai International, United Arab Emirates Abu Dhabi International, United Arab EmiratesEmirates has announced that, in light of the new rules, customers travelling to the US via Dubai may use their gadgets on the first leg of the journey (eg from Johannesburg to Dubai) and can hand their devices over at the gate before boarding their US-bound flight. These will be carefully packed into boxes, loaded into the hold, and returned to the customer at their US destination. There will not be any charge for this service.Unless others follow suit, the ban poses a huge problem for those passengers leaving from South African airports, where pilfering from checked baggage continues to be a problem: passengers are warned not to check in valuable items at present, and travel insurers are clear that they will not be covered in their insurance policies if they do.The British ban affects 14 airlines, including British Airways, Easyjet and Monarch, which fly from the affected countries. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za