The Daily Telegraph revealed how City manager Pep Guardiola was caught up in a heated argument between Chelsea fitness coach Paolo Bertelli and City masseur Mark Sertori in the mouth of the tunnel following Chelsea s 2-1 victory on Wednesday.It has now been alleged Bertelli instigated the row by telling Sertori we just f*** you up the a*** , while there are also suggestions that Guardiola verbally abused a steward.Both clubs strongly deny the claims.On the allegation against Bertelli, a Chelsea spokesman, who was present, said: Utter nonsense, he said nothing of the sort. Witnesses say that Guardiola, on his way down the stairs to the mouth of the tunnel to defend Sertori, pushed away one of his own members of staff and swore at a Chelsea steward who was trying to calm the Spaniard down.A City spokesman responded to the accusation by saying: Rubbish. Several sources believe the apparent bad blood between Bertelli and Sertori may originate from Chelsea s victory at the Etihad in December.Guardiola insisted he and his staff had acted well after the defeat at Chelsea that knocked City out of the Premier League title race. He said: The tunnel at Chelsea is so tight. Come on, it was nothing. We congratulate Chelsea for the victory. We are so polite in our defeats. And especially we are so polite when we win, especially that. Chelsea head coach Antonio Conte missed the row as he was inside the home dressing room, but the Italian said: I think there is a winner and there is a loser, and both must accept the final result and show respect. For sure, if something strange happens, I try always to find the right solution to face the situation. It s important, always, to show great respect. Honestly, honestly, I stay in the changing room. I didn t see what happened. I saw, during the game, that there was one moment a bit of confrontation. OK, but then it finished. I tried to calm the situation. Milan want ConteConte has guided the Blues to the brink of winning the title in his first season, but that has not stopped reports in Italy claiming Inter Milan will make an attempt to snatch him away from Stamford Bridge this summer.Following the victory over City that maintained Chelsea s seven-point advantage over Tottenham Hotspur at the top of the table, Conte said: We re fighting for the title and we want to achieve this goal, then we ll try to build something important together. Asked whether that meant he would be at Chelsea next season, Conte added: Yes, for the next season. Other than Conte, Chelsea intend to keep hold of Eden Hazard, who proved the match-winner against City, despite renewed interest from Real Madrid.Mane out for the countLiverpool forward Sadio Mane has been ruled out for the remainder of the season after manager J rgen Klopp revealed the Senegal international is set to have surgery on a knee. The 24-year-old, who sustained meniscus damage in a challenge with Leighton Baines in last weekend s Merseyside derby, has had his knee in a brace and is walking on crutches.Liverpool s medical staff were hoping they could avoid an operation but the decision has been taken to write off the forward s campaign and get him fit again for pre-season. I am pretty sure Sadio will need surgery but I am not 100% sure when it will happen, said Klopp.