He did not give straight answers to straightforward questions.Are you prepared to look overseas for a captain? got this confusing reply: It s always going to be a challenge for us because of the number of leaders we lost after Rugby World Cup 2015. If you look at the franchises and see how young the leaders are then yes, there is work to be done. But I am of the opinion that the captain must choose himself and hold down his place in the starting XV. I will look at our first camp in Plettenberg Bay and then decide on captain. But will he be locally based? I am casting the net wider than normal to make sure it s not a guessing thing (sic). Read into that what you will, but Coetzee also revealed that he would employ the services of respected sports psychologist Pieter Kruger to assist in his selection. Professor Pieter Kruger has worked with the Springboks and he will be joining me in making sure that the players we have on the radar have all the right qualities, said Coetzee. When you look for a Springbok captain, what is it you are looking for? That is something that we re busy with ... making sure we have the right criteria. Coetzee offered current Toulon No8 Duane Vermeulen the captaincy in 2016, on condition that the player extracted himself from his lucrative French club contract and returned to South Africa. It didn t happen and the job went to hooker Adriaan Strauss, who announced his international retirement two months into the job.So who are the likely candidates for Springbok captain No58 in 2017?CANDIDATES:Duane Vermeulen (30, Toulon, 37 tests): Based on Coetzee s assertion that the captain would have to be a first choice in his position, Vermeulen fits the bill. He is a proven world-class international No8 who thrives in the more claustrophobic test environment. He is well respected and driven to succeed. He is not a yes man and openly spoke out about the problems in SA Rugby last year, which won him praise and abuse. But he s fearless, intelligent and above all, the best in his position.Francois Louw (31, Bath, 52 tests): The most experienced of the candidates and still South Africa s best openside option at the moment. With Marcell Coetzee injured, Louw has little opposition for the No6 jersey. He also has massive experience as a leader having captained Bath for three seasons. He s played under three Bok coaches and knows the setup better than anybody else too.Warren Whiteley (29, Lions, 15 tests): The romantic choice, and as captain of the Lions in Super Rugby, has done a fine job. He s a quality player but has yet to prove himself at test level and is unlikely to oust a fit and available Vermeulen from the Bok starting lineup. Whiteley doesn t automatically meet Coetzee s main requirement that he command his starting position. But he is young enough to lead the Boks through to RWC 2019, something Vermeulen and Louw might struggle to do.Siya Kolisi (25, Stormers, 13 tests): New to a formal leadership role in his first year as Stormers captain. Kolisi admitted that he d never captained a team before this year, but he s taken to the role with quiet authority at the Stormers. He is in a battle for the Bok No7 jersey with Oupa Mohoje and Uzair Cassiem among others though, so until he is the undisputed first choice in his position, he might have to mark time.Handr Pollard (23, Bulls, 20 tests): Had injury not felled him early last year, Pollard might have been Bok captain already. A natural leader, who commands respect on and off the field, he seemed groomed for the job from a young age. But injuries and loss of form this season have undermined his challenge. It s easy to forget he s only 23 and his best years are ahead. He is the type around which a dynasty could be built.sports@timesmedia.co.za