Marais was instrumental in setting up four of the Stormers eight tries and received strong support from the rest of the cast on a day suggesting something special brewing in Cape Town. The pack typically laid the foundation for victory with locks Pieter-Steph du Toit and Eben Etzebeth wreaking havoc with the Cheetahs lineout. Marais aside, there were strong performances from wing Dillyn Leyds, Notshe and new flank Cobus Wiese, who enjoyed a strong 55 minutes before he was withdrawn.The Stormers are now 13 points clear at the top of the Africa 1 standings and in perfect shape for their sternest test of when they take on the Chiefs at Newlands next week.The rest of the tries came from centre Daniel du Plessis, captain Siya Kolisi, and flyhalf Robert du Preez while Cheetahs No8 Henco Venter scored their try from a rolling maul.Impressive as the Stormers attack was, their defence was also up to the task after a porous display against the Sunwolves in Singapore.Their spirit was summed up when wing Cheslin Kolbe chased back 60m to scythe Henco Venter down inches from the tryline despite the contest being over with the home side leading 48-10.Kolbe then broke from his 22 to set up Notshe for his hat-trick try in the final minute.The Stormers had the match sewn up by halftime thanks to their ability to cut holes in the ragged Cheetahs defence almost at will. Cheetahs coach Franco Smith will have much to ponder this week because the performance had no obvious positive aspects.Marais was excellent in ghosting through the visitors defence, one particularly mazy run leading to the team's second try which was finished by Notshe.The Stormers have talked about wanting to become a better attacking force and play like the best New Zealand teams, and on yesterday's evidence the project is coming along nicely.There were always support runners on the shoulders of ball carriers and even lumbering giants such as lock Eben Etzebeth and tighthead Fran Malherbe are running great angles and supplying deft offloads. Another striking aspect of the Stormers' play was the decision-making and quick thinking.Leyds scored two first-half tries and both times made the decision to back his pace against the covering defence rather than looking for an inside pass.When he was ankle tapped a couple of metres short of the tryline on his way to his second score, he had the presence of mind to release the ball for a split second before picking it up and stretching for the line.It summed up the Stormers' display, which has given the fans reason for optimism in 2017.SCORERSStormers 53 Tries: Dillyn Leyds (2), Sikhumbuzo Notshe (3), Daniel du Plessis, Robert du Preez, Siya Kolisi. Conversions: Du Preez (4), Kurt Coleman. Penalty: Du Preez. Cheetahs 10 Try: Henco Venter. Conversion: Fred Zeilinga. Penalty: Zeilinga.