 Acornbush United coach McDonald Nutty Professor Makhubedu must have been the chief celebrant of the Cape High Court s judgement on possession and usage of cannabis. He may or may not have puffed a joint or two at his home before heading to Kabokweni Stadium where his amateurs allowed Chiefs a 2-1 come-from-behind victory. His mix masala post-match interview was stuff straight from the looney bin. And with a name like McDonald, our man proved that he was two burgers short of a happy meal. Steve Komphela, renowned for his linguistic gymnastics, pulled a clapback from his arsenal in response to loose-lipped Makhubedu s rigmarole. After Happy Meal argued his club didn t learn anything from that match, Komphela delivered this haymaker: When somebody gives you university education while you re at primary and you don t understand, it doesn t mean that the module is wrong. Makhubedu has enrolled himself at an Adult Basic Education and Training school to decode the missive. Pitso Mosimane s paranoia is well documented. But now it seems the African champion is convinced that even his own shadow is out to get him, if his recent utterances are anything to go by. Mosimane claims the whole world including the PSL, it s coaches and the Easter Bunny are out to get him after he had altercations with a Chiefs security and Arrows official. Now Tsamaya s No1 fan wants to pack his bags, not for Perth, but Lesotho, where he will be richer than the national football association. Tsamaya has cracked the reason behind Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo s axing from the starting XI. He has discovered a new sport like Jan van Riebeeck discovered Cape of Good Hope. Mhlongo took the court to rub shoulders with tennis wheelchair stars. The organisers said it was the first time Mhlongo had seen wheelchair tennis, let alone tried it himself, but by the end of the session, the Pirates goalkeeper was loathe to leave the chair. Is Mhlongo contemplating a career change after finding the chair more comfortable than the bench? Baroka FC goalkeeper Oscarine Masuluke deservedly hogged the headlines and trended worldwide for his sensational scissors kick against Orlando Pirates a few months ago. Pity Oscarine gets chowed like a nectarine when it comes to doing his actual job, goalkeeping. The lanky lad stood still like a street light as Bevan Fransman s ball whizzed past him like a rocket and was clumsy with crosses, betraying his height.