University of Sydney researchers surveyed 5,000 surf breaks in 146 countries, including South Africa, and found their discovery can raise a place s economic growth by 2.2 percentage points a year. A surf break is a seabed formation that produces good surfing waves.The lead researcher, economist Dr Sam Wills, and his team analysed satellite images of night-time lights as a proxy for economic growth. We conducted four sets of experiments, and they all confirm that good waves significantly increase growth, particularly ... during El Ni o years, said Wills.For a developing country like South Africa, this is a significant finding: the paper suggests policymakers can use surf breaks to create jobs and reduce poverty.Locally, the surfing scene is growing exponentially. The J-Bay Open, which draws surfers from all over the world, is part of the umbrella Winterfest which now sees 50,000 people from around the world flooding into the surfing hot spot of Jeffreys Bay. Jeffreys Bay Tourism CEO Deon Freemantle said the surfing event was growing year by year. Last year it was valued at R35-million, while the umbrella event various activities and sports, including surfing was pegged at R100-million. The other world league competition, the Ballito Pro, benefits about 60 local traders and 80% of the exhibitors are local. According to a recent report in the North Coast Courier, Ilembe Chamber of Commerce CEO Cobus Oelofse said that over the past six years, R2.3-million had been reinvested in sports programmes and R7-million in education thanks to the competition. Steve Pike, founder of national online surfing hub Wavescape, said even small towns with no competitions experienced small ventures popping up in the form of backpacker hostels or mobile tourism operations which organised surfing expeditions from larger towns. On Friday, the most lucrative series of professional surfing events yet staged in South Africa was launched in Port Elizabeth, and in June in Durban, an international competition will make its debut.In Cape Town late last month, Muizenberg unveiled its Surfers Circle Walk of Fame bolstering the town s reputation as a surfing mecca. Here, group surfing lessons for children are the latest scheme to boost the economy.Pike said South Africa, like other countries, had seen surfing morph into a mainstream sport. The commercialisation of surfing was driven by brands and the leveraging of the cool underground nature of it. Then it became inspirational, which meant it became a marketing tool to sell stuff. So, surfing got commodified. As the researchers discovered, surfing gives rise to other industries.Even areas away from a surfing hot spot get a boost. In most places in South Africa, the surfing community is too niche to make an impact, but the shining example here of how it can boost the economy is Jeffreys Bay, said Pike.Freemantle said: Surfing as an industry is synonymous with this town and has come a long way. The town itself is expanding, with more and more younger business people and entrepreneurs establishing businesses in the area. In some communities, the economic effect of surfing has been more personal than simply stimulating economic activity.Waves for Change is an NGO that uses surf therapy in the Western Cape to help communities where children regularly encounter trauma.The idea is that surf therapy can improve the mental health of children and young people at risk. Dungeons Hout Bay (Cape Town) Elands Bay (three hours north of Cape Town) The Wild Coast (Eastern Cape) Jeffreys Bay (Eastern Cape) Dairy Beach (Durban) Bay of Plenty (Durban) Llandudno (Cape Town) Victoria Bay (George) Buffels Bay (near Knysna) Muizenberg longboarders paradise (Cape Town)According to a study from the University of Sydney: Top-quality breaks can be worth A$2.45-million (about R25-million) more per break per year than lower-quality breaks; A high-quality surf break can raise economic growth by 2.2 percentage points per year; The invention of heated wetsuits raised economic growth by 2.6 percentage points per year in cold-water breaks; and During El Ni o years, famed for good surf, the increase in wave height can boost the local economy by 5.6 percentage points.