In the central Danish town of Aarhus, the concert hall looks more like a fish farm than a music set, with its jumble of water tanks, canisters, tubes, pipes and retro-futuristic objects.The members of Between Music - Laila, Robert, Morten, Dea Maria and Nanna - descend into individual glass-paned water tanks for their project AquaSonic , where they play the violin, cymbals, bells, a crystallophone with a pedal, and a kind of long-necked hurdy-gurdy.Hydrophones, or special microphones that pick up the sound of the music in the water, amplify the sound waves, producing music that resembles the sounds whales make.Vinyl Sundays give you the chance to amp up your record collectionLaila Skovmand is artistic director, music and lyrics writer, and vocalist. She sings both underwater and at the water's surface. Like a siren, her lips at water level, Skovmand releases a captivating chant."I got the idea that if I sang into the surface of the water I might get some other timbre, some delays, so I tried that," she explains.Skovmand also plays the hydraulophone, a type of underwater organ.The group collaborates with engineers and makers of musical instruments to develop water-resistant instruments whose sounds respect the harmonies composed by Skovmand."There are so many things we can't play because of the struggle with the sound, but what the water gives is that special kind of timbre that you can't get in air," she says.The resulting effect is a sound closer to an accompaniment for Tibetan meditation than it is to chamber music. And it's far from other well-known tributes to water such as Maurice Ravel's Fountains or Luciano Berio's Water Piano.While the water transports the sound, it also stifles it and slows it down considerably: the effect is a bit like playing Pink Floyd or Jean-Michel Jarre in slow motion.Robert Karlsson plays the violin - made of carbon fibre - and the crystallophone, a distant relative of the glass harmonica invented by Benjamin Franklin. "We want to show that the impossible is possible, to discover a new element with live music," says Karlsson. Nanna Bech performs the rotacorda, an instrument inspired by a traditional Byzantine hurdy-gurdy. It has six stainless-steel strings which can make sound either with a sustained pulling of the string or when fingered."It's the only one in the world so I don't even have a teacher. And that's a shame," Bech jokes.WATCH Between Music in action The band spends the entire performance under water, surfacing regularly as part of the choreography to take breaths of air. Ahead of the recent Aarhus concert, the ensemble spent almost six hours in the tanks in one afternoon to prepare for that night's 50-minute performance. The water is kept at 37C."We do some diving training, practising to hold our breath under water," Bech explains. And she has developed a special technique to sing under water."I can't let the air bubbles get out of my mouth, because they will become bubbles and that makes a lot of noise under water. So I can only make short notes."For Karlsson, making music in water has a magical effect on him."I'm not very fond of water personally. I can feel claustrophobic in a bathtub. But when I get into this tank and am playing an instrument, I get calm and really secure," he says.Between Music is currently performing AquaSonic across Europe. After a world premiere in Rotterdam last year, the band is now touring Denmark, and will take part in the International Diaghilev Festival in Perm, Russia, in May.