What does Rectron do? It provides technology solutions. Tell me about your job.I focus on all areas of the business, from sales, accounts and warehousing to technical support. My day starts off early with a nice cup of coffee while I catch up on e-mails and plan my day - all of which happens before 8am. Then I walk through the various departments to greet my team and make sure they are OK and motivated. On certain days, we start with sales meetings. The IT industry is fast-paced - throughout the day stocks arrive, new orders are placed and price lists are updated. At the same time, customer meetings, requests, training and courier collections are on the go. After a productive day, I make sure all my work is up to date and go home, where I try to spend time with my husband and two four-legged children. How did you go from being a receptionist at Rectron to branch manager? I studied IT. I initially applied for a receptionist role as a 20-year-old student: never would I have thought this would turn out to be a long and successful career path for me. Since then, I've worked in debtors, warehouse, technical, sales and operations, all of which have given me a better understanding of how to run a branch.When I started as a receptionist, I was constantly trying to upskill myself and assist in other departments, even though it was never expected of me. In this way, I gained the knowledge I needed to get promoted into other areas of the business. Whenever a position was advertised, I would apply, because I believe in taking chances and reaching my goals. I faced a lot of challenges, and was thrown into the deep end many times, but I learnt quickly, and my determination to succeed kept me going and growing. My curiosity about other departments and my passion for the IT industry took me forward. Do you think you are a better manager because you worked your way up the ranks?Absolutely! By doing so, you gain the respect of your team, because you have a better understanding of the challenges they face. It's much easier to make improvements in departments if you have worked in them, and understand their challenges. Working your way up the ranks also assists with more effective problem-solving because you know what to do. My experiences have also helped me to map out skills appropriate to each department and then put together proper career development paths based on my teams' skills and abilities.What do you most enjoy about your job?The thrill of the chase. I love chasing deals and meeting customers' needs by supplying the right solution at the right time. Internally, I love to inspire people to work hard and reach their goals.What tasks do you wish you could get someone else to do?The admin behind all the work that's done each day.What did you want to be when you were a child? A pilot or air hostess, because I love flying and travelling the world. What is the biggest lesson you have learnt from making mistakes at work?The best tutors in life are the mistakes we make. My ability to learn from those mistakes has made me successful. For example, I have made assumptions and blamed the wrong people in my team because I did not get all the facts. This has taught me to ensure I have all the facts before making decisions, and to always try to listen to both sides of the story.What part of your job would people be most surprised about?The fact that I've been very hands-on, even building computers from scratch.