He was arrested this week in Port Elizabeth and appeared in court charged with human trafficking and sexual assault.Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Netshiunda of the Hawks said there was "a huge possibility" more charges could follow."More charges are coming through and once we've got tangible evidence we will add them." 'Ponzi pastor' loses battle with Asset Forfeiture UnitPolice are also investigating claims that Omotoso sexually molested girls and women in two other countries.Durban-based Omotoso is head of the Jesus Dominion International church group.He was arrested in a bathroom at the Port Elizabeth International Airport on Thursday and appeared in court on Friday.Earlier in the week police alleged Omotoso had taken women and girls from various branches of his church to a house in the upmarket Umhlanga Rocks area, north of Durban.It was there, police said, that the girls were sexually abused.In a TV show aired last week, the SABC's Special Assignment said Omotoso is accused of molesting or raping about 30 women or girls.The Nigerian pastor will remain in jail until at least May 3, when he is likely to apply for bail.Omotoso's family have gone into hiding and his television show on DStv and free-to-air channel Soweto TV has been withdrawn.Phone calls to his wife, Taiwo, and to one of his sons, Victor, went unanswered. Text messages were not replied to."A number of things are being said about him," said Netshiunda. "As the Hawks, it is our job to investigate and find facts. We are not ruling out anything."Social media was abuzz yesterday with claims that Omotoso had been banned from entering the UK. There have also been allegations of sexual abuse made against him by alleged victims in France.Netshiunda could not confirm these claims, but said any allegations would form part of the police's wider investigation."We're looking at so many things. We are looking into allegations in [other] international countries. We are looking at this thing holistically," he said.</img>Timothy Omotoso (red shirt) among his congregants. Image: SUPPLIEDTimothy Omotoso (red shirt) among his congregants. Image: SUPPLIEDOmotoso's supporters o utside the Port Elizabeth magistrate's court this week went on their knees praying for him .Across social media, there was support for him.UK-based television personality and rapper Shoggy Tosh, who describes Omotoso as his mentor and "adopted father", changed his Facebook and Twitter profile pictures to one of him with the preacher.Postings on Facebook called Omotoso "a man of honour, truth and integrity" and "a friend of Jesus". Others referred to him as "my daddy" and "my father". Twin sisters Anele and Neliswa Mxakaza, who joined Omotoso's girls-only gospel group after being eliminated from Idols South Africa in 2013, supported him .The twins left their Chesterville, Durban, home to move into the pastor's Umhlanga home in 2014. Even though they left his group, they remained in the church.The day before the Special Assignment investigation aired, Neliswa wrote: "Timothy Omotoso. I'll never forget your love and honesty, and mostly I'll always carry your teachings in my heart." Ex-Joburg pastor dragged further into 'Bible basher' scandalOmotoso's church in Sasolburg in a since-deleted Facebook post had perhaps the most bizarre message of support."South Africa you just made the biggest mistake by arresting Rev Tim Omotoso," the post said."So you will face the biggest natural disaster you never experienced in your life within seven days. Mark my words. Rev Tim Omotoso is not just a man but a friend of Jesus."The Sunday Times has established that Omotoso's Tuesday show on DStv's One Gospel programme was pulled.This came after 10 complaints were lodged via social media, said the channel's head of content Robyn Smith."On Tuesday, April 18, all programming received from Pastor Tim Omotoso's Global Outreach organisation was pulled."In light of the current controversy around Pastor Tim Omotoso, we have completely removed the programming from the channel and will no longer broadcast it," she said.The Sunday Times also established that construction of his 4,000-seater church in Umhlali, about 45km from Durban on the North Coast of KwaZulu-Natal, has come to a stop, allegedly after the contractor was not paid.According to a contractor, the land on which the church is to be built was bought for R7.5-million.Excavation operations started in July last year but came to a halt in December.mthethwab@sundaytimes.co.za and pillayt@sundaytimes.co.zaOmotoso is not the first religious leader in this country to face claims of abuse:Ndlovu of the National Christian Assemblies of God in Port Shepstone was exposed for having sex with more than 30 women. He was arrested in 2007 on charges that included rape and indecent assault, but was acquitted in 2010. Dozens of women flocked to him because they wanted to pass "through the Pearly Gates".Olivier admitted to indecently assaulting and sodomising as many as 2,000 children in South Africa and Zimbabwe. Under the alias Brian Shannon, Olivier, was arrested in 2004 on five charges of indecent assault. Olivier was working as a Sunday school teacher in Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal, at the time. The case was thrown out due to bungling by police and prosecutors. In 2007 Olivier was jailed for life for killing a six-year-old in 2005.Ndwandwe of Mandlankala in Richards Bay, KwaZulu-Natal, was sentenced in 2015 to 10 years for sexually assaulting two close relatives. The court heard that Ndwandwe first raped the older victim when she was 19. He was also accused of raping a 15-year-old pregnant relative. The court found that he abused the children after their mother died.In 2014, Kerkhoff was extradited from South Africa to Germany to face allegations of sexual assault of children in that country. He was convicted on 25 charges and sentenced to six years in prison. He had been arrested in South Africa after being accused of molesting five children at a youth camp in Brits, North West, in 2008.In May 2016, Pastor Mthuthuzeli Mnapi of the Christ Healing Fountain Church was found guilty of raping two young women - who had come to him for help after being raped by other men. Yasantha Naidoo, Bongani Mthethwa and Nathi Olifant