The pressure was on from day one. Never knowing what was happening next is traumatising but the thought of taking home the title and all the prizes always pushed us through. During the competition we aren't allowed to see or taste the other team's dishes - and after each challenge we'd all gather to talk about what we made, just like a group of students do when walking out of an exam.One of the most testing challenges was butchering a springbok carcass and preparing it in three ways.</img>Brother and sister team Tersia and Tarlan Baker. Image: Louis HiemstraBrother and sister team Tersia and Tarlan Baker. Image: Louis HiemstraIf we could re-do just one challenge it would be the burger challenge because we really let ourselves and the team down. We could have produced better-quality food.The experience has changed the way we view food as we got to play around with so many different flavours and textures and we learnt a lot about the way food should be prepared and presented, through the judges' comments.Winning the title of Ultimate Braai Master would blow us away and being able to walk around with the title would give us the most impressive bragging rights. Try team Mutton Head's tikka chicken recipe. We are both chefs. We met when we worked together in a restaurant and enjoy cooking and like creating menus with ingredients that inspire us, using seasonal produce.The most difficult challenge for us was the dreaded pap challenge. We'd never worked with pap before and discovered how versatile mealie meal is as an ingredient.</img>Desiree and Peter Ilgmann are chefs from Somerset West. Image: Louis HiemstraDesiree and Peter Ilgmann are chefs from Somerset West. Image: Louis HiemstraBeing part of The Ultimate Braai Master was so scary, knowing that your life in the game depends on the opinion of the judges - and what you may be proud of, they may spit out in disgust!If we could do it over again we'd love to tackle the pub grub and venison challenges again as we both think we could have done so much better.Ultimate Braai Master has given us a new appreciation for food, where it comes from and the fact that so many in South Africa go hungry every day. Through the show we've learnt how to stay humble, respect others, have fun with food and let our imaginations run wild!If we could go back to one place on the incredible journey it would be the Letsatsi Game Lodge for the absolute peace and quiet. Try team Pretty Griddy's recipe for apple strudel with custard.Nick: We both work on a super-yacht travelling the world. I'm the diving instructor and Chanel is the chief stewardess who handles the staff and the hospitality side of things.There's no question I love chicken wings and if I had my way I'd eat them for breakfast, lunch and dinner.Chanel: It's a tradition in my family that when we visit my parents in Dubai we enjoy their famous chilli braai prawns. It's no average dinner.Nick: My culinary arts come from Hilton Perfect. That's my dad, by the way.There's no doubt in our minds that the springbok challenge was the most difficult. For Chanel it was more mentally than physically draining because our cooking partners, Sam and Gugu, wanted us to get the boot but they didn't know how determined we were to win, and sabotage was not going to work!</img>Super-yacht travellers Chanel Marais and Nick Perfect. Image: Louis HiemstraSuper-yacht travellers Chanel Marais and Nick Perfect. Image: Louis HiemstraChanel: I have never been to the Wild Coast and it was mindblowing. We live in such a stunning country and the Ultimate Braai Master journey made me fall in love with it again.Every day was a learning curve for us. There were so many ingredients we'd never heard of or worked with, but this was the beauty of the journey - learning to experiment and think out of the box.The dish that impressed us, although we hate to admit it, was the apple strudel from the Pretty Griddy team, who had some tricks up their sleeves.Nick: If we could do one challenge over again it would be the very first one, where we had to create a simple steak sandwich.Chanel and Nick: If we won we'd love to open a food trailer in Cape Town selling smoked foods that embrace the fine art of the braai and share our food experiments. Try team Salty Flames's braaied vegetable-stuffed butternut recipe. Catch all the drama and excitement of the final episode of 'The Ultimate Braai Master 5' on e.tv (DStv 194) at 4pm on Sunday, April 30, when the winner will be announced.