Could a World Cup actually be contested without Argentina for the first time since 1970?As it stands now, Brazil has one spot locked up with 33 points. After that, it's very close.Colombia has 24 points, and Uruguay and Chile each have 23 to hold the top-four spots. Argentina has 22.Moreover, Ecuador at 20 and Peru and Paraguay at 18 each are well within striking distance.On Tuesday night Argentina were outplayed in Bolivia, 2-0, as Messi served the first match of his suspension. He will miss the next three matches as well, barring a successful appeal.Though Messi is just one player, he is crucial to football giants La Albiceleste.Because of injury, and now the suspension, he has played in only six qualifiers. In those matches, the team has amassed 15 of a possible 18 points. He had four goals in those matches, and that leads the team despite his limited play.In eight matches without the 29-year-old, Argentina have tallied only seven of 24 points, and had home losses to Ecuador and Paraguay.Because World Cup qualifying matches are scattered over a long period, extended suspensions are particularly painful. A four-match suspension does not sound too bad, but it means Messi will not play qualifying matches for his country until October.Next up for Argentina is a difficult game in Uruguay in August. Then in September and October, the team will be favoured at home against Venezuela and Peru (although Peru may not be a lock looking at Argentina's recent Messi-less form).Should those matches go as expected, Argentina would face a potentially decisive final match at Ecuador on October 10. And Messi would return for that match.Still, the team could wind up in fifth place. That would not mean elimination. It would go to a play-off against the winner of Oceania qualifying, almost certainly New Zealand. Argentina would be heavily favoured... during 2014 qualifying, New Zealand lost, 9-3 on aggregate, to Mexico. So really, the top five might be good enough for Argentina.But sixth or lower would mean the end of the line. A loss in the Peru match could be fatal.Poor performance in qualifying does not mean poor performance in the World Cup.In 2010, for example, Uruguay needed to qualify through the play-off after finishing fifth, then made the tournament semifinal. And barring injury or something unexpected, Messi would be at the World Cup, in Russia, with Argentina.You would still have to say Argentina are likely to make the World Cup.Depending on the bookmaker, La Albiceleste is still the fifth favourite or so to win it, behind only Germany, Brazil, France and Spain.In 1970, under a format in which teams played only four matches and only three South American teams qualified, Argentina stumbled against Bolivia and Peru and were knocked out. In the 11 World Cups since then, the team has two titles, in 1978 and 1986, and two runner-up finishes. A World Cup without Argentina, and Messi, would feel strange.Still, it is more than possible. That Argentina's participation is in doubt at all is a shock, and a worrying sign for the many Albiceleste fans around the world.