Gone are the days when African designers routinely imported cloth from Europe and Asia. The fabrics used by designers at the recent Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Autumn/Winter 2017 were made using local resources often with a twist. Here are five designers who stood out:With her Afrocentric style, Yomekpe is one of the most celebrated designers in Ghana.Her African Gatsby collection imagines a 1920s Gatsby party in all its glamour and splendour with a modern African twist. I wondered how an African woman would look in sparkle and mixing it with the African print fabric, says Yomekpe. We had to make each fabric from scratch, which took months to create. Basi s designs celebrate individuality and feminism.She says style is all about telling a story: It s more than a piece of clothing, it s the narrative woven into the garment that interests and excites me, such as wearing a heritage piece passed down from my grandmother. Her technicolour coat pays extravagant homage to the prints widely used across West Africa. Influenced by his ethnic background and traditional Mozambican customs, Bacar presented a collection that is a celebration of his home country.The ingenious use of woven baskets as umbrellas was among the highlights. Another designer celebrating his culture, in this case his Xhosa roots, Ngxokolo says fashion is a celebration of identity. His Coronation collection was inspired by his journey in the fashion industry.Opening the show were international supermodels Nina Milner and Ajuma Nasenyana in a plethora of the prints Ngxokolo is renowned for.For the past five years, he s been using wool from the Eastern Cape to create his knit range. Cultural colour blocking made a comeback on the ramp with this collection.Making use of Shangaan colours, Ndiaye used South African accessories paired with Senegalese style.Her collection is inspired by the Sapeurs of the Congo, a band of men who have turned the art of dressing into a cultural statement. They are ordinary working-class men clothed in elegant attire, creating flamboyant identities for themselves through their luxurious style and bold, beautiful suits. 