A familiar figure, Stuart Baxter, could return to lead Bafana for a second spell, although he isn t the only coach that Safa are looking at.Not much has changed in terms of the British coach s physical appearance from just over a decade ago. He still trims his beard like he did in 2004. His body looks more or less the same, thanks largely to martial arts that keeps him fit and calm, complementing the meditating regimen he does before every match. But a lot has changed about the coach. If you are a coach and you can t adapt, you re going to die, Steve Komphela, who was Baxter s assistant at Bafana in his first stint, said. Stuart has adapted and come to understand the game in South Africa. His period at (Kaizer) Chiefs made his life easier. He came to Chiefs and he was successful. The difference between the Baxter who took over Bafana in 2004 and the current one is that he has ingrained himself in the country s football scene. His domestic success backs that up, guiding Chiefs to four trophies in three seasons before he won the Nedbank Cup with SuperSport United in only his fourth month at the club.But his biggest disadvantage is his lack of success on the continent, which should have disqualified him for the job as Safa wanted a coach who is familiar with African football competition who will be expected to continue the quest to qualify for the world s apex football competition .Baxter left Chiefs without making an impact on the continent. The lowest moment was sending his assistant coach, Doctor Khumalo, to Abidjan to take on Asec Mimosa in the Confederation Cup play-offs after Chiefs were demoted from the 2014 CAF Champions League. That wasn t my decision, Baxter said. The criticism Baxter received for that snub probably played a role in his decision to travel with SuperSport to Sudan in the Confederation Cup last month, despite the British embassy advising him against it because of safety concerns. There was strong advice for me to not go to Sudan. But I decided against it because I had to be there with the team. I had to show that we did things together, Baxter said.Matsatsantsa a Pitori lost 3-2 in Shendi in boiling hot conditions. However, they brushed aside Al-Ahly Shendi in the second leg to reach the play-offs.This afternoon they take on Barrack Young Controllers (BYC) in Liberia in the first leg. A positive result over two legs against BYC will take SuperSport to the group stage and serve as a good foundation for Baxter to settle as Bafana coach.He denied that he was holding Safa to ransom in the negotiations by allegedly demanding that they hire his son Lee as the goalkeeper coach.Those allegations have put Baxter back where he was when he arrived in the country for his second spell, with his character under question.The hangover of him failing to take Bafana to the World Cup in Germany was still high and allegations that he embellished his CV in certain areas didn t help his case.He won Chiefs fans over by guiding the club to league success in his first season the first foreigner to do that in his debut season. Baxter once again has to put forward the charm offensive to win over the fans.The coach refused to talk about Bafana before he left for Monrovia on Friday. But in March, when his name was first linked with the job, he opened up about what he would do. I would probably do all the things that I did then, he said. When I was there, I was trying to instigate youth development projects, more coach education and I held workshops with the PSL coaches. I think the climate with you guys [the media], the players and all the stakeholders is better now. sports@timesmedia.co.za