You're of Nigerian origin, born and raised in Germany. Do you think your heritage and upbringing affected your style? Definitely. Germany is very static and straightforward. Schooling there teaches you how to get things done efficiently. Nigeria, in contrast, is chaotic and vibrant and is a place where everything is possible. I think these two elements are visible in my work - a m lange of African vibrancy and German structure. Meet the maker: Amanda du Plessis of Evolution ProductDo you design everything yourself? Yes, but I work with a graphic designer on the colours and repeat patterns. I sketch and use those sketches to develop the designs. You're based in London. What is the UK's perception of African design? The consumer and wholesale market are very slow when it comes to the appreciation of African design. The trend here is more "back to British" with quirky, placating designs. That said, interior designers and architects are open to African design, especially in the high-end sector of the market, and we've been working on some great projects.Your mission is "Bringing Colour to Life". Do you have advice for people wanting to bring bold colour into their homes?I feel that colour can change your life, so it is important to add a little (or a lot) to your home. Depending on how you feel about colour, start with some scatter cushions or a nice throw and develop from there. And some tips for mixing patterns in the home?Be bold, brave and make it beautiful. You will be surprised how great the impact of mixing patterns and texture can be. Take your time, see what you love and play around. If it doesn't work the first time, you can try other combinations. There are no rules.</img>The FALOMO collection by Eva Sonaike. Image: SuppliedThe FALOMO collection by Eva Sonaike. Image: SuppliedA collaboration you'd love to be part of?I would love to collaborate with a fashion house, as many people ask me for fashion fabrics. I could see my prints in a Marni collection. For more info, visit evasonaike.com.