No, this isn't a science club's X-rated YouTube fantasy; it is National Geographic channel's first foray into a scripted TV drama series. Judging from this opening sequence, Genius is armed with enough provocation to vie for a serious chunk of the TV audience. Series networks, beware.It is more than meticulous period costume and melodrama produced by some of the best screen writers, filmographers and actors in the business. Being the product of National Geographic, there is also enough fidelity to Einstein's theoretical work to keep scholars of early 20th-century science hooked.And for those for whom the periodic table holds little appeal, Genius offers an intriguing glimpse at the personality and private life of this physics rock star. Why should we care about Albert Einstein, anyway?The script is based on Walter Isaacson's book Einstein: His Life and Universe and promises to reveal everything about the man, from his most intimate thoughts to his tumultuous marriages.According to Kelly Souders, one of the writers employed to translate Isaacson's work to the screen, Einstein's relationships surprised them the most.His two difficult marriages - one of which was to his first cousin Elsa - and affairs, while contentious, would be standard fare for society today. But in the early 20 th century, when it came to relationships he was clearly a non conventional thinker.It's sewn into the script succinctly when he shares his rationale on polygamy with his office assistant Betty: "I love Mozart and Bach, I love the Swiss Alps and the Baltic Sea, why can't I love you and Elsa?"Romantic relationships were not the only source of turmoil for Einstein. The series loops to his early years when his extraordinary curiosity and genius form views that bring him into explosive contention with his teachers and his disciplinarian father, who has hopes that his son will pursue a career as an engineer, like him.Played in the series by rising British actor Johnny Flynn, the young Einstein, constantly daydreaming with a childlike curiosity of his environment, grows more and more agitated and at odds with his world.WATCH the trailer for Nat Geo's Genius In the time line mechanics of the script, we are given a glimpse into some factors that help steady his emotional and intellectual foundations and bridge the transition from genius upstart to historical giant.In the first episode, a stay with Swiss professor Jost Winteler while studying at the Federal Polytechnic introduces Einstein to his first sweetheart, the professor's headstrong daughter Marie and, more importantly, to a family environment receptive to debate and reasoning.In the Winteler household, Einstein becomes vehemently anti-nationalist and renounces his German citizenship without claiming another; this is at a time of strong nationalist sentiment after the unification of Germany into a nation state.Although they are the result more of coincidence than intent, says Souders, the parallels with current world affairs are clear. Or perhaps it was more than coincidence; the script was being written while the US presidential campaign was at its peak, with all its blustering partisan utterances.And indeed, in the series it is fascinating to watch Einstein and his professional contemporaries live within and respond to the political context of the time. He's part scientist, part Groucho Marx: Geoffrey Rush on playing EinsteinIt shows that Einstein was also increasingly faced with growing anti-Semitism in Germany, and investigates how the advances in this golden age of scientific discovery during the early 20th century intertwined with the development of nations.According to Souders: "What must have been heartbreaking for Einstein was that science went from something that was global, a gift to give the world, to something that was monopolised by militaries across the globe, then used for consumerism."The 10-part series doesn't aim to fell a titan of science and history, but to unveil the humanity of the man - while simultaneously interrogating the definition of "genius"."I hope the one thing that the audience gets is not the ability to impress their friends at dinner parties because they understand the theory of relativity. If that's all they get from this series, then they've missed the drama," says Geoffrey Rush."Because he is not unlike anyone at this table. He has moments of regret and sorrow and pain, moments of exhilaration, moments of politicization."</img>Johnny Flynn plays young Albert Einstein in 'Genius'. Image: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC/ROBERT VIGLASKY Johnny Flynn plays young Albert Einstein in 'Genius'. Image: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC/ROBERT VIGLASKY In 2006, 20 years after the death of his stepdaughter Margaret, a large volume of Albert Einstein's private letters, once owned by her, was released to the public. The letters date from 1912 up to Einstein's death in 1955, and include personal correspondence to his two wives.They reveal a philandering eye as Einstein writes candidly of his extramarital affairs. In one letter to Elsa, Einstein admits that women were chasing him, showering him with unwanted attention.MARIE WINTELERIn 1895, aged 16, Einstein fell in love with the daughter of the professor he was boarding with while attending school in the Swiss town of Aarau. The relationship lasted for about a year, until he moved to Zurich and Marie moved to Olsberg.</img>Albert Einstein and his first wife Mileva Maric. Image: SuppliedAlbert Einstein and his first wife Mileva Maric. Image: SuppliedMILEVA MARICEinstein's first wife was a Serbian physicist who studied with him at the Zurich Polytechnic. She married Einstein in 1903 and had three children with him, but soon after moving to Berlin with him their relationship broke down. They divorced in 1919. Albert gave her the winnings from his Nobel Prize as agreed in their divorce terms.ELSA EINSTEINElsa was a first cousin to Albert. They often played together as children when Elsa's family went to visit Albert's family in Munich. In 1908 Elsa divorced her first husband with whom she had two daughters. In 1912 she and Albert renewed their friendship, and they married in 1919. They remained married until her death in 1936.BETTY NEUMANNIn 1923, while married to Elsa, Einstein had an affair with Betty, a niece of a friend and his secretary. He tried desperately to integrate her into his family life.ETHEL MICHANOWSKIWas a Berlin socialite and friend of Einstein's stepdaughter Margot. She was involved with Einstein in the late 1920s and early 1930s. Einstein even wrote to Elsa of his relationship with Ethel.OTHER WOMENOther women with whom Einstein flirted were Estella Katzenellenbogen, wealthy owner of a flower business, and Toni Mendel, a wealthy widow. 'Genius' will broadcast on the National Geographic channel (DStv 181) from Sunday April 23 at 20h05.