In South Africa, however, Kraft-Heinz is but a little giant. Phil Roux, CEO at Pioneer Foods, who entered into a joint-venture agreement with Heinz to establish Heinz Food SA in 2003, said Kraft-Heinz products had "mixed success" as Heinz's tomato sauce range had not fared well. Powerful "local brands with established market positions and high consumer commitment levels were part of the problem", said Roux. "Consistent brand investment and differentiation is required in some instances and different tactics for certain categories." Roux said that although local brands were the real value drivers in the company's brand portfolio, the joint venture with Kraft-Heinz would consider strategic acquisitions in order to maximise opportunities. But Kraft-Heinz, operating separately in Africa, is struggling against local competitors, because it seems South African consumers still prefer the taste of local brands. According to research by Euromonitor in 2016, Tiger Brands' All Gold brand was the leading tomato-sauce brand, accounting for 61.2% of the market, while Pioneer Food Group's Wellington brand had 10.5% and Heinz had 1.7%. Yet despite this, Marcos Romaniero, the zone president of Africa, the Middle East and Asia, said Kraft-Heinz had been experiencing double-digit growth in South Africa.Romaniero, who was in the country this week for the rollout of its food initiative, for which it has set-aside $200-million to provide a billion meals to malnourished people around the world, said the strategy was to continue to build a foundation for growth. "In South Africa specifically, the Wellington brand is a big chilli-sauce player and plays with tomato sauce, among other categories," said Romaniero. Kraft's peanut product, Planters , which is the group's number one brand in the US, was recently launched in South Africa, "so we are continuing to leverage that and we are starting to see positive off-takes". "We are pretty optimistic and we are really passionate around continuing to drive the growth that we've seen in the company," said Romaniero. "On the Kraft brand, we continue to launch in the region and in South Africa. We just launched Miracle Whip mayonnaise, so we are getting traction to continue to expand." Miracle Whip, previously available in South Africa, was withdrawn a few years ago when Mondelez owned Kraft. In 2015 Heinz bought Kraft. But Orin Tambo, an Intellidex financial analyst, said that though there was not much information on Heinz SA as it was privately run, it did not seem to have made significant inroads in South Africa. "This is something not peculiar to Heinz alone. A number of international brands have failed to dislodge the local ones. I also don't think it has been aggressive in marketing its products," said Tambo. Despite this, he said, "Kraft, on the other hand, has been largely successful. It has presence in almost all subregions of the continent and in several countries including Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Namibia and Botswana." Kraft's main brands sold in Africa include Cadbury chocolate, Jacobs coffee, Oreo biscuits, Oscar Mayer cold meats and Philadelphia cream cheese, Bournvita crackers and Kraft mayonnaise and barbecue sauce. In February, Kraft-Heinz reported that fourth-quarter sales fell 3.7% in the US, while sales in Europe were down 13.3% to $600-million. In the rest of the world - including Latin America, Asia Pacific, the Middle-East and Africa - net sales were down 0.7% to $801-million.Yet Romaniero maintains that the key is to make sure that international brands can continue to adapt locally to be in a position to drive performance. "Each country has its own unique challenges, whether it's positive or negative. We as an organisation need to be able enough to adapt to change. "That's the key, because at the end of the day, we have to put our consumers first," said Romaniero.