The proposal, to be made at the yet-to-be-confirmed national consultative conference, seeks to instil internal democracy in the ANC by allowing each of the party s 769,870 members in good standing to vote for the leaders of their choice.Omry Makgoale, one of the 101 stalwarts who have called for Zuma to step down, said branch delegates were susceptible to influence and manipulation and, therefore, were less likely to represent the true wishes of ordinary members.The group is also set to propose that candidates who wish to contest leadership positions do so openly and be allowed to compile their own manifestos to give voting members knowledge of their campaign promises.The proposal is unlikely to receive support in party structures as there is resistance to reform within the ANC.Another proposal by the elders will seek to introduce lifestyle audits to eliminate party members and leaders living beyond their means from the proceeds of corruption. The ANC has already made this suggestion but some leaders, including President Jacob Zuma, have criticised the audits while others, such as Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor, have lent their support to the call. We did discuss those issues, including the one about members electing leaders directly, said Makgoale. It is an alternative proposal to introduce internal party democracy. The leaders will be elected directly by all members in good standing. That is one proposal that the stalwarts and veterans felt quite passionately about. Meanwhile, fellow stalwart Frank Chikane said the pressure group would dismiss as a waste of time the ruling party s offer of a watered-down two-day consultative conference.Chikane told the Sunday Times that a consultative conference scheduled for the first two days of the policy conference in June would be nothing but a glorified listening campaign, adding: They listened to us in November [2016]. We don t need a listening campaign. We need a conference to fix the ANC. The stalwarts want a national consultative conference to be held separately from the June policy conference. They had initially wanted that conference to be held this month but Chikane said a conference could still be held six weeks before the policy conference.However, he said a dominant group within the ANC national working committee was deliberately working against an NEC decision to have the consultative conference. The stalwarts accuse this group of seeking to avoid being called to account for corrupt relationships that are undermining the values of the ANC and [SA s] constitution .Said Chikane: My view is that it will be a waste of time because you will be meeting people who don t believe there is a problem. Any person who believes there is a problem will set aside two days outside the policy conference ... let s talk now ... Why would we need to wait for June when the house is on fire? 