What is the one thing people generally do wrong when getting their artworks framed?People are too conservative in their approach and often just want the same thing they have done before. They will have a set image in their mind of a black frame with a mount and aren't aware of the incredible options available in different finishes or natural woods. We love to embrace colour and make the frame a part of the artwork.Making Fridays: the simple solution to keeping your creative juices flowingIs there a rule of thumb on how wide the matting should be, relative to the size of the artwork?Traditionally, yes. The mountboard should never be smaller than the thickness of the frame. The width of the matt should be double the thickness of the frame. You don't want a mount that is too narrow, as this competes with the frame.How thick should the frame be relative to the artwork?I don't think there is a set rule here. We normally work with three main elements: the client's space constraints, making sure the frame is structurally sound, and how to best showcase, conserve and protect the artwork.Any tips on choosing colours?The image and the frame need to be integrated, so if you are working with colours, these need to pick up on the tones in the work. You also need to take into consideration the space that the artwork is going to hang in. For example, if the artwork is very loud and so is the space, then the frame should be black or white to calm it down. The options are endless, which is why the framing process can take time and you need to follow the journey.Custom framing can be expensive - what are the advantages of going to a pro?You benefit from the knowledge of an experienced framing consultant. This person will guide you through the process of choosing the ideal frame to complement your artwork. They will also be able to give you all the options regarding conservation and archival preservation of the artwork, which is important when considering longevity.Any other advice?Less is more. Don't over dramatise. For more info visit ormsprintroom.co.za