While the fruits of those orchards are shipped worldwide, five local cider producers are giving the craft beer fraternity a run for their money with a clutch of superb handcrafted ciders.The producers range from garagiste favourites to urban-focused young brands, and the valley s five cider-makers have formed the South African Craft Cider Guild to promote and protect the term craft cider under a simple definition: cider fermented only from fresh pressed apples . That means, unlike commercial ciders, no juice concentrate or preservatives or added flavourants.There's a craft cider revolution brewing in South AfricaMichael Everson has long been a stalwart of Elgin ciders, using careful fermentation and barrel ageing to craft his wide range of expressive ciders. You can find (and taste) Everson s Cider at the ever-popular Peregrine Farmstall on the N2 (from Wednesday to Sunday, 10am 5pm).Here also look out for Terra Madre Pomme Classique, the valley s first sparkling cider made using the M thode Cap Classique technique of secondary fermentation in the bottle. It s dry, lightly sparkling and ideal with roasted pork dishes. Windermere Cider is another local favourite, and has been made in Elgin for more than 20 years. The current range of ciders is all barrel-aged for six months, and includes ciders infused with rooibos, elderflower and orchard botanicals. Look out for them at selected outlets and restaurants.If Windermere is original Elgin cider, Sxollie is the young upstart causing a stir. Fermented in stainless steel tanks using Champagne yeasts, the single-varietal ciders (Golden Delicious, Granny Smith and a Packham Pear perry ) are available at the cosy tasting room on the platform of Elgin s old railway station.Further down the N2, the tasting room on Paul Cluver Estate is where you ll find the delicious Cluver and Jack ciders. Made predominantly from Granny Smith apples, all the fruit is sourced from the Cluver family s De Rust estate before being chopped, pressed, fermented and bottled. The result is a naturally made, deliciously dry cider that pairs perfectly with anything from quiche to pork and a piquant cheese board. This was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.