Bidvest Wits head coach Hunt - a figure of speculation every time the national team coaching job becomes available - said he was not sure the South African Football Association (Safa) would support anyone with such expectations.Hunt hasn't ruled himself out of the job left vacant by the dismissal last month, after a disciplinary hearing, of coach Ephraim "Shakes" Mashaba.This week, he simply said he had not been called by Safa, either now or in June when there was speculation Mashaba was set to get the boot after Bafana's failure to qualify for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations with two matches left.Pitso Mosimane: I don't want Bafana Bafana jobHunt probably did not do himself too many favours this week, describing Safa's recent notion that his perceived reluctance to be competitive in the past two years in continental competition should count against him as a national candidate as "bulls**t".Overly outspoken candidates haven't been favourites of Safa.Hunt had more to say when asked if the Bafana job was a poisoned chalice given its reputation for breaking down, chewing up and spitting out coaches with solid reputations."Ja, but I think it needs a complete overhaul, whoever's brave enough and strong enough to do that," he replied."You need a complete change of players too, a complete change of mentality and personnel around the team, and of playing style as well. And are the association going to back that person to do it? Is that ever going to happen? I don't know."So those types of things - whoever's coming in, can they do it or are they just going to have to go with the norm of what's been happening?"Hunt said even if he were to be approached by Safa, his employer Bidvest Wits would need to give their permission for the coach to exit a new contract the 52-year-old signed in June.The coach did admit that whoever takes over Bafana now, has two big advantages. Rumours over vacant post irk MumbleFirstly, South Africa are in a strong position in their World Cup qualifying group, in second place, on four points with Burkina Faso. Wins against Cape Verde - who have lost both their matches - away and home in August and September, then at home to Burkina Faso, could leave Bafana through to Russia 2018.Secondly, there appears to be a stronger, better-coached class of player coming through to the national team currently than the disappointing 2010 World Cup generation."I tend to agree with that. But are those players going to be given a chance?" he queried."There are a few players who, for me, are well past what they need to offer now - not because of their age but because they've been there and haven't done enough."But there is certainly a good emphasis on youth right now in this country. And not necessarily youth, but the right type of players. And I think whoever comes in has something to work with."But it's not for me to talk about that - that's not my domain. Obviously I'm concentrating on what I have to do now [at Wits]."Hunt's greatest success was his three successive league titles at SuperSport United from 2008 to 2010. He has won three cups, including the MTN8 - The Students' second trophy in the Premier Soccer League era - in October.Wits have had their best finishes of third, third and second under Hunt in the past three seasons.