How did the idea for Littlegig come about? A few years ago I realised there were very few places where I wanted to hang out. I've always been interested in music as a vehicle for bringing people together, so I started a series of music concerts in interesting settings. They sold out quickly and attracted an interesting crowd. I wanted to push the boundaries of inspiration and curation, so I decided to expand the concerts into a festival.What is the event all about? It's a 24-hour music, food, design and camping festival that happens once a year, 40 minutes outside Cape Town. Every aspect is curated; we work with some of the best local designers, chefs, winemakers, curators and musicians.</img>Georgia Black. Image: SuppliedGeorgia Black. Image: SuppliedThe curation is superb. What do you look for when you're putting together the mix? I am always on the lookout for local talent, both experienced and young. It's impossible to know everything, so I work with a few experts in their fields - editors, music label executives and gallery owners with in-depth knowledge of what's going on in their fields. Aside from local talent, we have a couple of international headliners. This year we're bringing out a chef from Copenhagen and DJ/producers from Germany and LA. The magic is in the mix and Littlegig has come to stand for an inspiring and interesting pool of talent rather than a roster of big names used to draw crowds.New elements to look out for? We have expanded onto the island in the middle of the dam. There's a Rum Shack, a Tropical Bass Bar (styled by Tasha Tyler to look like a Congolese jungle), and a sunset set by house music legend Culoe de Song. We've also introduced glamping options .And on the food front? Chef Rasmus Munk from Copenhagen will be headlining the food experience. He's described by Rene Redzepi (from Noma) as one of the most exciting chefs in the world, so we're lucky to have him. Rasmus will be presenting a 12-course chef's table on Saturday night for 40 foodies. He is also one of the four chefs at the Saturday chef-and-farmer's tasting, where he will be joined by Chris Erasmus of Foliage, Jason Lilley of Jason Bakery and PJ Vadas of The Hoghouse. There's also an all-day food menu prepared by Annalize Sainsbury of Escoffier.Littlegig Festival serves up a 24-hour feast of music, food, wine & designWhat to wear? Go wild! Littlegig is a creatively led festival with dressing up at its heart - the result of the crowd we attract. There's a concept store that sells one-off festival fashion items, which we spend a year commissioning. Festival fashion is a huge trend, and the local and international designers we've been working with have made incredible pieces with beading, fringing, feathers, hoops, macram . Some of the pieces look like they come straight from a Gucci or Valentino show!What to bring? A pillow and a sheet if you're in a festival camping tent. (If you're glamping, you don't need to bother). A swimming costume. A yoga mat. Cash or card for the store. And a good vibe.Will Littlegig come to other SA cities? I'm drawn to the energy in Joburg. There's an openness to new experiences among Joburgers that I love and can relate to. That's all I'm saying at this point! Littlegig takes place on January 28 &amp; 29 at Wiesenhof farm in Stellenbosch. Ticket prices include all food and drinks. Day tickets are R1,950. Festival camping tickets are R2,500 per person. Glamping tickets range from R3,150 to R4,500 per person. No under-21s allowed.