So the 18-year-old Mpumalanga matriculant turned to China to make his dream of becoming a doctor a reality.Concern about #FeesMustFall protests had also persuaded the Middelburg teenager to study abroad. He is one of about 100 South Africans who have applied to study medicine at Chinese universities through Student Alliance.The alliance was started by South African doctors who qualified in China and are now helping others with overseas studies. Blade's plan falls flat with #FeesMustFallAccording to the alliance, about 100 doctors have qualified in China and are practising at South African hospitals after writing a medical board exam.The first class of South African medical students that the alliance helped to study in China is expected to graduate next year.Dr Irshaad Saley, who qualified in China, started Student Alliance after being rejected by South African medical schools. He said the race quota system adopted by some medical schools was still the main factor in forcing students to opt for foreign study. Safety concerns also persuaded them to go overseas. Last year, #FeesMustFall protests turned violent, forcing campuses to shut down and exams to be delayed."We can't categorically state the #FeesMustFall campaign has prompted many more South Africans to go abroad to pursue their studies, although safety is a big concern for students," Saley said."But South Africa remains one of the best countries in the world to train as a doctor. Most students going overseas have tried and failed to get into local universities."Saley said more students would consider overseas study."As much as we have faith that the situation will get sorted ... we also have to be realistic. Parents look out for the best interests of their kids, safety being at the top of the list. </img>Irshaad Saley qualified in China and started Student Alliance after being rejected by South African medical schools. Image: JACKIE CLAUSEN Irshaad Saley qualified in China and started Student Alliance after being rejected by South African medical schools. Image: JACKIE CLAUSEN"For this reason I do foresee a large number of parents and students showing interest to pursue studies abroad." Oostendurp said the prospect of studying medicine overseas restored his faith in himself."I was extremely sad. I have dreamt of becoming a doctor since I was four. I felt I was not just good enough and others were better than me."When I learnt about Student Alliance, I had a glimmer of hope."I'm so keen to take on this challenge of studying in a foreign country and learning about a new culture."Oostendurp said student protests had also persuaded him to study abroad. Class of 2017 must start raising us all up "It will be great to study in a stable environment where there is no disruption."It is estimated that his studies will cost R200,000 a year, including fees, living costs and travel. China's academic year starts in March.Nomvelo Madondo, 19, of Greytown, KwaZulu-Natal, also scored a few distinctions when she matriculated two years ago. But her maths and physics marks were not up to scratch for medicine. Although she improved on her marks last year by studying through a private institution, Madondo was still rejected by medical schools."Applications have been made to Chinese universities. I am crossing my fingers that I can go there and study. All I want is to become a doctor," she said.Saley, who works at a state hospital in Durban, said China had become first preference for medical students because of the cost factor. "Most of the university fees are on par with South African universities and some are cheaper. "The cost of living in China is very much cheaper than in South Africa. So, overall, to send a student to study in China works out the same, if not cheaper, than sending the same student to study at a university in South Africa, away from home."