Haute couture, French for high fashion, is a testament to technical skill. These garments are handmade from start to finish every pleat, every bead, every ruffle is meticulously hand sewn.They also represent a designer s wildest creative fantasy come to life and, as such, tend to be over-the-top, are often un-wearable and are usually unaffordable.That said, the Spring 2017 collections shown at the recent Paris Haute Couture Week featured a mix of grandiose and surprisingly wearable garments. And, as always, there was no shortage of inspiration for even the most budget-conscious fashionista.Here are savvy style ideas you can steal from three of this year's shows:Karl Lagerfeld s Spring 2017 couture collection for CHANEL was inspired by a spoon Alberto Giacometti s sculpture Spoon Woman (1926), to be exact. The bronze sculpture depicts a woman s neck, bust and spoon-shaped hips.Lagerfeld's inspiration could clearly be seen in his ultra-feminine silhouettes and use of metallic belts to emphasise the curve of a woman's hips.Ideas to steal: like Lagerfield, look for fashion inspiration anywhere and everywhere. Highlight your curves with waist-cinching belts and layered skirts.</img> A look from CHANEL's Spring 2017 couture collection. Image: Peter White/Getty ImagesA look from CHANEL's Spring 2017 couture collection. Image: Peter White/Getty ImagesCouture would not be couture without the over-the-top voluminous ball gowns. This season, Giambattista Valli schooled us on how to do volume with or without the ball gown. Think bigger sleeves, bountiful ruffles and endless layers of tulle.Idea to steal: use volume to add all the drama of a couture runway show to your everyday wardrobe think bell-sleeved tops, wide-leg pants and culottes.</img> Volume is key in any Giambattista Valli gown. Image: Estrop/Getty ImagesVolume is key in any Giambattista Valli gown. Image: Estrop/Getty Images</img> Giambattista Valli is renowned for his larger-than-life voluminous couture gowns. Image: Estrop/Getty ImagesGiambattista Valli is renowned for his larger-than-life voluminous couture gowns. Image: Estrop/Getty ImagesWith the rise of sustainable fashion and upcycled streetwear popularised by Vetments it s no wonder Viktor &amp; Rolf created an entire collection by deconstructing old and damaged vintage pieces and transforming them into fully-fledged couture gowns.Ideas to steal: reinvent old favourites by playing around with different styling options. If a piece is looking a bit past it, try deconstructing it and turning it into something else. An easy example would be cropping those jeans with frayed hems into a pair of shorts.</img> Viktor & Rolf are kings of reinventing the concept of couture. Their Spring 2017 collection featured gowns made from reconstructed vintage garments. Image: Peter White/Getty ImagesViktor & Rolf are kings of reinventing the concept of couture. Their Spring 2017 collection featured gowns made from reconstructed vintage garments. Image: Peter White/Getty Images</img> Layers of tulle from up-cycled gowns come together in this Viktor & Rolf creation. Image: Peter White/Getty ImagesLayers of tulle from up-cycled gowns come together in this Viktor & Rolf creation. Image: Peter White/Getty Images