The properties they offer range from businesses to holiday homes to the very houses they live in. But what's it really like to open up your home to strangers on a regular basis?Here, the owners of some very different properties tell us what works for them, what puts them off and who were the weirdest guests they ve ever had. Sydelle Willow Smith Filmmaker-photographer Sydelle Willow Smith and her husband Rowan Pybus let their own house in Gardens when they travel for work. It's listed on Airbnb as 'Cape Town Artist Home in The City'.</img>Airbnb hosts Rowan Pybus and Sydelle Willow Smith. Image: ROWAN PYBUSAirbnb hosts Rowan Pybus and Sydelle Willow Smith. Image: ROWAN PYBUSTell us about yourselfMy husband and I run Sunshine Cinema, a film-production company and a solar cinema. We produce media campaigns that give a voice to the young people across Africa who are affected by climate change and the issues surrounding HIV/AIDS.How did you get into hosting on Airbnb and why did you decide to do it?As we're are often away on long shoots for our film-production company, we felt it was a good option for us to be able to pay off our bond and complete renovations.How long have you been doing it?On and off for two years.Tell us a bit about the property. What do you think makes it stand out from other listings?We live very close to the Company Gardens in Cape Town and the property has a small garden and off-street parking, which is quite rare for area.What do you like about hosting?It gives you a chance to meet new people, make some extra income and provide a unique experience - we mostly use Airbnb when travelling in countries that offer it, so it's great to be able to also offer the service.Anything you dislike about hosting?Sometimes it's tricky that we live in the house and getting the dates right can be complicated.Describe the most interesting/oddest guest you've ever hadAll the guests have been great so far - my strangest experience of Airbnb was actually as a renter, when I travelled to Bilbao, Spain, with my mother. The apartment was very hot and we wanted a fan but the owner kept trying to persuade me that it was not hot.How to turn your home into a HomeTel (& other secrets of Airbnb success)If you could choose anyone in the world to come and stay at your place, who would it be and why?Charlie Brooker, the creator of the Black Mirror TV series would be top of the list.That show is pure genius and the storylines are eerily plausible. It really makes you think about society's relationship to technologies in new ways and it would be kind of great to pick his brain over muesli in the morning.However, as that's not what Airbnb is about, I would go with any well-travelled conversationalist.Do you ever feel weird about having strangers stay in your house when you are away?Because of the Airbnb system of being able to read previous hosts' reviews about guests before they stay, I don't.What's your top tip for new Airbnb hosts?Make sure you don't leave too many of your personal items around - like clothes and stuff - so people can feel like they can make the space theirs for the time they are renting.Since we let our place when we are away on long shoots, we deal with this by putting our stuff in storage.Also, make sure you write up a list of dos and don'ts and offer some tips based on your local knowledge of top visiting spots.It's always nice to provide some complimentary coffee or wine for the guest to welcome them. Airbnb is always about making the person feel like they are at home, while travelling - that's the beauty of it. It is so much more personal than a hotel. Salochanee Reddy A private room in Salochanee Reddy's wellbeing centre in Saxonwold proved so popular she added home-stay cottages. It's listed on Airbnb as 'Luxury Room in Wellness Day Spa'.</img>Airbnb host Salochanee Reddy. Image: COLLETTE BAILEYAirbnb host Salochanee Reddy. Image: COLLETTE BAILEYTell us a bit about yourselfI am a social entrepreneur, holistic life coach and founder of The Equilibrium Centre for Wellbeing in Saxonwold, Johannesburg. It offers access to various tools that enable clients to live a balanced, peaceful and centred life.How did you get into hosting?We have beautiful facilities in a tranquil setting. We decided to offer these on Airbnb to earn additional income and to allow more people to enjoy the centre.How long have you been doing it?For the past two years.Tell us a bit about the propertyWe started with the Pitta room, which is one of two private rooms that can be booked in the centre, giving access to our day spa with scheduled yoga classes, a steam room and sauna, plus Ayurvedic and other massages.We got so many enquiries from people wanting their own space that we added three self-catering, fully serviced cottages in the beautiful gardens. The facilities are all new and well maintained.What do you like about hosting?I enjoy meeting new people and pampering them while making them feel special away from home. With the progressive use of smartphones, the booking and payment system via Airbnb is seamless.</img>The Pitta room is one of two private rooms at The Equilibrium Centre for Wellbeing in Saxonwold, Johannesburg, that can be rented via Airbnb. Image: SALOCHANEE REDDYThe Pitta room is one of two private rooms at The Equilibrium Centre for Wellbeing in Saxonwold, Johannesburg, that can be rented via Airbnb. Image: SALOCHANEE REDDYAnything you dislike about hosting?Some guests don't respect and care for the facilities that we put so much energy and passion into looking after.Describe the most interesting guest you've ever hadA visitor from Belgium, a most direct and adamant lady, who wanted her bath tub filled with buckets of water from another tap instead of the running water from the bath tubs tap. It took many buckets of carried water.If you could choose anyone in the world to come and stay at your place, who would it be and why?In the current times, I would love to have Donald Trump come and stay so I can evaluate his true intentions and sincerity of his "Game Plan".What's your top tip for new hosts?Your facilities are a signature of you so make the effort to ensure your guests are well taken care of and the facilities are of a standard that you would be happy to stay in. Give it a home-away-from-home look and feel.Always maintain your calendar, showing when your property is unavailable, as there are costly penalties for mistakes. PATTI LEGG Joburg-based Patti Legg's own holiday home in the Victorian village of Stanford, Western Cape, is one of several she has listed on the site . It's listed on Airbnb as 'Lavenders Blue'.</img>Airbnb host Patti Legg. Image: ED LEGGAirbnb host Patti Legg. Image: ED LEGGTell us a bit about yourselfI enjoy travelling, cooking, hiking and visiting exciting destinations around the world.How did you get into hosting on Airbnb and why did you decide to do it?I have a holiday home in Stanford, and together with my business partner, run a holiday letting agency. When Airbnb came on the scene, we decided to give it a try to assess their systems. I listed my two Johannesburg properties, The Poppyseed and The Studio, and have been so impressed with the excellent booking portal Airbnb provides. The guest/host review system is superb and sets Airbnb way ahead of any other booking system.How long have you been doing it?The first property was listed in 2014.Tell us a bit about the property. What do you think makes it stand out from other listings in the area?Lavenders Blue is a quaint, thatched, self-catering holiday home. It has a very inviting patio with a hammock and a day bed and the most glorious views of the mountains over vineyards.I think it stands out because it has been furnished and decorated with the comfort and convenience of holiday guests in mind. I provide luxury linen and quality furniture and equipment. Regular maintenance and a good team of housekeepers maintain these high standards.What do you like about hosting?I love meeting and interacting with guests and making them feel welcome.I really enjoy being able to help first-time visitors enjoy every aspect of South Africa, while feeling secure and safe with some "insider" knowledge.Anything you dislike about hosting?Some guests are very difficult to please and leave unfair reviews that are harmful to the overall profile. South Africa is challenging with power and water cuts, and unpredictable cell and internet connectivity - especially in a rural area.</img>Lavenders Blue. Image: Patti LeggLavenders Blue. Image: Patti LeggDescribe the most interesting/oddest guest you've ever hadMy most treasured guests were from Mozambique, who came to Joburg for the birth of their son. I had the joy of being around to help them and be a surrogate gran.My most interesting guest was a single lady from Alaska who was so willing to experience everything SA has to offer - the epitome of an intrepid traveller.If you could choose anyone in the world to come and stay at your place, who would it be and why?Barack Obama - he is an inspiration as a leader, a statesman, a husband, a father. And I'm sure he needs a good holiday.What's your top tip for new Airbnb hosts?Be generous, warm and welcoming and give your guests everything you would like to get, if you were checking into a home on the other side of the world.