First-half goals from defender Richard Stearman, his first for the Midlands club in nearly three years, and Andreas Weimann saw Paul Lambert's side join Swansea and Southampton in tasting success at Anfield in just over a week. But after seeing their team knocked out of the League Cup by Southampton in midweek, this loss was a particular disappointment for home supporters, who booed their team off at half time. Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp opted for an under-strength side against a team currently positioned just four places above the relegation zone in English football's second-tier Championship. Liverpool struggles continue after shock home defeat by Wolves in FA Cup Only Georginio Wijnaldum, Ragnar Klavan and Roberto Firmino could be classified as first-team regulars among Klopp's starting XI and the gamble backfired before even a minute of the fourth round tie had elapsed. The hapless Alberto Moreno fouled Dave Edwards and Helder Costa's superb free kick was met at the far post by Stearman, whose powerful header flew across goal and into the Liverpool net. Wolves' second goal, in the 41st minute, was the result of even worse Liverpool defending as Matt Doherty's pass was gathered by the impressive Costa, who held off Moreno far too easily. His superb pass, into a central position from the right, found Weimann, sprinting between Joe Gomez and Connor Randall, and the Wolves forward advanced confidently before touching the ball past Loris Karius and slotting into an open goal. Not until the 86th minute did Liverpool breach the Wolves defence as the visitors failed to clear a Philippe Coutinho corner. Daniel Sturridge helped the ball across goal and Divock Origi turned it in at the far post. It might have been worse for Klopp, whose side are 10 points behind Premier League leaders Chelsea, as his defence in particular struggled to cope with the committed visitors, roared on by 8300 Wolves supporters. Shortly after the opening goal, Nouha Dicko failed to connect with a shot sis metres out and, in the 10th minute, Costa sprinted nearly 50m, leaving a line of defenders in his wake, before slicing off target. While seven-times FA Cup winners Liverpool began to enjoy more possession, Wolves' solid defending ensured 20-year-old back-up goalkeeper Harry Burgoyne did not have a first-half save to make. Unhappy Liverpool coach Klopp slams officials after League Cup exit The closest thing to a Liverpool chance fell to Firmino, just after the half hour, but his attempted curler flew wide and, at the interval, Klopp threw on Coutinho. There was almost an instant response as Ben Woodburn's free kick was met by Firmino. But what appeared a goal-bound header struck teammate Klavan on its way out for a goal kick. Wolves, themselves four-time FA Cup winners, albeit the last in 1960, were being pressed deeper and deeper into their own half. Coutinho's first sight of goal - and Liverpool's first on-target effort - ended with a weak 22m shot straight at Burgoyne on the hour. Liverpool's goal ensured a frantic finale, with Burgoyne saving with an outstretched leg to deny Origi an equaliser and Bodvarsson making an extraordinary run that ended with Lucas clearing his effort off the line. AFP