When he followed that advice two years ago, he was knocked down by Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant.Crouse, as the registrar in the Department of Labour, had put the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied Workers Union under administration.He was prompted by, among other issues, the union's failure to submit audited financial statements. The union had also not held meetings with its national executive committee for four years. Some members were concerned about the union's management of its funds, worth about R4-billion.When he ignored an instruction by Oliphant to halt the proceedings, she removed Crouse from his position.The Labour Court ruled that his demotion was irrational and invalid and that Crouse should be reinstated. This week, Oliphant's appeal was dismissed. The judgment was made by Labour Appeal Court Judge President Basheer Waglay and judges King Ndlovu and Philip Coppin.SA envoy's 'spaza shop' in UKThey ruled that it "has not been proved that the minister has the power, in terms of the law, to call the registrar to account to her, or to intervene in, or assume the registrar's function".But for Crouse, it was a hollow victory. "I can't stop wondering what her [Oliphant's] next move will be. In 10 months I will be on pension, so I do not really have much time to pursue this any further," he said, sitting in his small, cramped office in Pretoria."I was merely enforcing proper accountability within the union. It was part of the duties I had to do as a registrar," said Crouse, 64, who has worked for the department for 39 years - 20 of those as registrar.For the past two years, he has been assisting junior staff. Among the files on his desk are three bundles relating to the union."I haven't been able to touch these since this whole court battle started. I still believe this whole court case was a waste of taxpayers' money."Crouse said the case had taken a toll on his health and he had sometimes doubted if he had made the right decision."I was under a lot of stress, I could not sleep. Every day I questioned what I did. What if I hadn't gone ahead with putting the union under administration, would I have slept better? But now two courts have proved there were no legal reasons why [I was demoted]. Today I can proudly say I did no wrong."Crouse said he was now looking forward to "working hard" for the next few months he has left at the department."I'm still not sure if she will frustrate me further. She can still take the matter to the Constitutional Court, I don't know. The only thing I can do is sit and wait."