As a result, while visitors to the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas were expecting to be dazzled by a robotic future, the reality was more about giving current cars a futuristic edge.For example, Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn used a keynote address to demonstrate how Microsoft's personal voice assistance technology, Cortana, can be integrated into a vehicle to make driving more efficient. Both Nissan and Renault are collaborating with Microsoft to build a next generation of connected car technologies.Ghosn also looked to the more distant future, unveiling the Seamless Autonomous Mobility system, developed from Nasa technology to combine artificial intelligence with human support, to help self-driving vehicles make tricky decisions. "This technology will enable millions of driverless cars to co-exist with human drivers in an accelerated timeline," he said.Toyota introduced a similar theme with its Concept i vehicle, which includes an AI platform called Yui. It uses what is commonly known as machine learning to learn a driver's preferences. However, it will take that into the AI sphere by paying attention to whether the driver is happy or sad, and responding accordingly. Remember the Instamatic? It's still dead, but Kodak isn't"The car and driver become as one, as teammates," said Toyota automotive sales senior vice-president Bob Carter.Underlining the fact that future car technology is not only about autonomy, Ford had one of the most wide-ranging exhibits at CES, from its Le Mans 24-hour endurance rally- winning GT to its recently acquired Chariot, a crowdsourced shuttle service to cut road congestion.Its most immediately arresting technology, however, was its integration of Amazon's Alexa voice-control app into the Sync3 on-board infotainment system launched at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona last February.At CES, it was as if Sync had grown up, connecting the vehicle to smart home systems. Telling it to switch on the house lights while on the way home, or asking it about the car's fuel levels while having breakfast, are some of the more obvious applications.With voice in cars all the rage, Volvo said it would build Skype for Business into its new 90 Series cars, and Hyundai unveiled its plans for Alexa.Not that self-driving was off the agenda. Chipmaker Intel announced it would team up with BMW to bring a fleet of 40 autonomous test vehicles to the roads by the year-end. Working with Israeli driving technology company Mobileye, they are building a platform that will be available to all carmakers."This partnership has all of the skills and talent necessary to overcome the enormous technological challenges ahead and commercialise self-driving vehicles," said Klaus Fr hlich, who is on the BMW management board.Meanwhile, mere mortal drivers can participate indirectly in the hi-tech future. Mapping company Rand McNally used CES to launch OverDryve, an aftermarket car dashboard tablet that combines infotainment with navigation and safety features for any car. Accessories range from wireless rear-view cameras and tyre pressure monitors linked to - you guessed it - your own voice-controlled smart assistant.Goldstuck is founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter @art2gee and on YouTube. He gave a talk on emerging technologies at CES 2017