 Main strengthsDeservedly odds-on favourites to lift the Premier League trophy in May, there are all manner of signs to suggest Chelsea will put their defeat at White Hart Lane behind them and maintain their grip at the top of the table. A seven-point margin over all but one team is a healthy advantage at this stage of the season, while a number of their players know what it takes to win the league after doing so in 2014/15. Antonio Conte has rejuvenated the squad this season, they can score, defend and are certainly the team to beat.Main weaknessesThere are few in the starting XI Conte has been fortunate enough to field week-in and week-out this season but, as Arsenal and Spurs have shown, they are not unbeatable up against a team at the top of their game. Conte's faith in 3-4-3 could be tested should one if his wingbacks suffer injury. They have also won a large number of their matches by just one goal.All evidence points overwhelmingly in favour of Conte, 47, who has seemingly restored Chelsea to their former glory after a disastrous 2015/16 season that saw Jose Mourinho given the boot.The Italian's switch to a 3-4-3 has been credited with transforming the club and has brought the best out of the likes of Victor Moses - a player whose evolution this campaign would have been hard to predict six months ago. A Serie A title hat-trick with Juventus shows Conte knows what it takes to guide a club to a major trophy. Conte 'behind Chelsea streak'Injury listChelsea are one of only two clubs in the Premier League not to have a single injury currently affecting their first-team squad. Kurt Zouma's impending return to full fitness should only help matters further.Current moodPrior to the 2-0 loss against Spurs, few teams in Premier League history had ever been in better shape than the current Chelsea team, who had won their previous 13 top-flight matches to come within one of Arsenal's record. A single defeat should not do much to derail their momentum.DistractionsAlmost none whatsoever. After failing to qualify for European football last season, Chelsea have been able to concentrate fully on domestic affairs. An FA Cup quest is the only other thing on Conte's mind.ExperienceA side that has not changed its personnel a vast amount since winning the Premier League title in 2014/15 should not be fazed by challenging for the title.Key playerChelsea's success this season has largely been a team affair with the second most miserly defence in the league, a revitalised Eden Hazard and a regular supply of goals from Diego Costa. But few can argue to have had a bigger impact than N'Golo Kante, who is fast becoming one of the best defensive midfielders in world football.Strength in depthA solid eight out of 10. The likes of Zouma, John Terry and Branislav Ivanovic should be enough to provide defensive cover, while Cesc Fabregas cannot even force his way into the starting XI higher up the pitch.Big-match temperamentIs this the chink in Chelsea's armour? It is only a glimmer, but in matches against the top six this season Chelsea have won three and lost three.Remaining fixturesHaving already played Spurs twice this season, Chelsea now only have Arsenal, Liverpool and the two Manchester sides still to face of the traditionally big clubs.So, can they win the title?Yes - and they should do so. - BB Main strengthsGoals - from all manner of different players. Liverpool are the highest-scoring side in the top flight, where they average almost 2.5 goals per match. Adam Lallana has been a revelation this season, while Sadio Man and Roberto Firmino are at the top of their game.Main weaknessesTheir lack of a goalkeeper who exudes anything other than calamity. Jurgen Klopp has tried Loris Karius and Simon Mignolet at different times during the season with similar results. They could also do with somehow keeping Daniel Sturridge fit. Good luck with that.ManagerUnlike the Marmite managers in charge of the two Manchester clubs, Klopp is a man who is liked by the overwhelming majority of football supporters. He is tactically astute, rarely fails to win the respect of his own players and knows what it takes to succeed.Injury listSturridge and James Milner both suffered injuries over the Christmas/New Year period but neither is expected to be out for long - although in Sturridge's case something else will undoubtedly afflict him again soon. Joel Matip and Philippe Coutinho are nearing a return and the only long-term absentee is poor Danny Ings. Fabregas earns Chelsea perfect 10, City and Liverpool winCurrent moodVery positive. It has been three seasons since Liverpool were even vaguely involved in a title fight, but they look to be the main challengers to Chelsea this campaign and have lost just two league games all season. Victory over Manchester City on New Year's Eve was a huge result.DistractionsLike Chelsea, Klopp's side are not in Europe this season and have reaped the rewards of focusing solely on domestic matters. A two-legged League Cup semifinal against Southampton should not distract too much from their push for the title.ExperienceHistorically it is incredibly high. In more recent times it is extremely poor. Having not won the title since 1989/90, Liverpool looked set to pip City three years ago before their famous slip-ups against Chelsea and Crystal Palace. While many of their players have never won domestic titles, Klopp lifted the Bundesliga trophy twice with Borussia Dortmund.Key playerA toss up between two midfielders. Coutinho is the player the club's fans would least like to depart. Despite the Brazilian not playing since November, Liverpool are unbeaten in their last six matches and much of that is down to Lallana, who is enjoying himself.Strength in depthAny team that regularly has Sturridge and Emre Can failing to make the starting XI must have some semblance of depth. The club has not been lucky with injuries though and, without European football to distract them, they should be fine.Big-match temperamentGo back to that Chelsea match of April 2014 and the omens are not great. However, this season Liverpool have been a totally different prospect.Remaining fixturesOf all the potential title challengers, Liverpool appear to have the easiest task purely based on remaining fixtures. Of the teams they still have to play in the top half of the table, Klopp's side host six of them at Anfield with only three away games.So, can they win the title?They stand as good a chance as anyone of overtaking Chelsea and triumphing at the end of the season. - BBMain strengthsSome exceptionally good players have been performing somewhere near the peak of their ability this season and so much has been based on the back five-six. In Hugo Lloris, they have one of the finest goalkeepers in the world; Toby Alderweireld has arguably been the best centreback in the league this season; while Kyle Walker and Danny Rose continue to go from strength to strength. Dele Alli's ability at such a young age is astonishing and Harry Kane has shown no sign of being a flash in the pan.Main weaknessesIt had been quite some time since Spurs were involved in a title fight when they fell away at the crucial moment last season and eventually finished third. In reality, it was nothing less than anyone expected - Spurs will habitually stumble at the final hurdle. Whether they can banish the doubters remains to be seen.ManagerIs there another manager in the Premier League who has been lauded more than Mauricio Pochettino? The Argentine's stock rose rapidly at Southampton and has only continued in the same direction since moving to White Hart Lane in 2014. His presence has proven a key factor in convincing many of the big names to sign new deals. Alli double for Tottenham ends Chelsea's winning streakInjury listErik Lamela aside, Spurs have been blessed with a fit and healthy squad for the majority of the season so far.Current moodThe mood at Spurs could scarcely be better after ending Chelsea's winning streak with a great 2-0 win. That victory took their own perfect run to five Premier League matches and, ignoring the Champions League debacle, things are looking up.DistractionsDespite being dumped out of the Champions League, Spurs' midweek games are showing no sign of slowing with a draining Europa League campaign due to start in February. The taxing nature of the competition is bound to take its toll if they get to the latter stages.ExperienceNot a lot. Last season was the first time that a fairly young Spurs squad had been involved in a title race and things did not go well - few Tottenham supporters will care to recall their disastrous encounter with Chelsea late on in the season.Key playerIf Lloris decided to up sticks and leave White Hart Lane, it would be an enormous loss for the club, but there is no one more important than Kane. Home grown and a Spurs supporter from a young age, his unifying presence at the club is almost as important as the goals he bangs in with amazing regularity.Strength in depthThe thinking among many Spurs fans is that, while those players who occupy the bench are fine at filling in briefly when required, the majority are not up to scratch if asked to replace an injured player in the long term. Are Ben Davies, Georges-Kevin N'Koudou, Kevin Wimmer and Moussa Sissoko going to win any team the Premier League title? Probably not. And the less said about Vincent Janssen the better.Big-match temperamentThere was no bigger match last season than the trip to Stamford Bridge at the start of May and the 2-2 draw that followed killed all hopes of winning the title. This year, Spurs have not fared too badly against the big sides, taking eight points from six matches including this week's perfect 2-0 victory over Chelsea.Remaining fixturesPochettino is yet to lose a home London derby, and Arsenal's visit to White Hart Lane at the end of April could prove crucial to the title top-four race. Manchester United then follow a fortnight later.So, can they win the title?The ability is there, but the resounding feeling where Spurs are involved is one of pessimism. If something can possibly go wrong, it will go wrong. - BB Main strengthsIn Sergio Ag ero, Kevin de Bruyne and David Silva, City have three of the most potent attackers in the Premier League. They also have a manager in Pep Guardiola who has won the title in six of his seven seasons in top-flight management.Main weaknessesThere appears to be a disconnect between the way Guardiola wants his team to play and their ability to actually carry out his instructions. Defensively, in particular, City have looked all at sea at times this season, with the 4-2 defeat at Leicester City a humiliating experience. Goalkeeper Claudio Bravo has often looked uncertain, and his critics claim he is too lightweight for the Premier League. City also have a disciplinary problem that needs resolving, with the team receiving more red cards than any team this season.ManagerGuardiola has been a divisive figure this season, with many commentators seeming to revel in any difficulties the arch-aesthete is finding in the hurly-burly of the Premier League. It is too early to judge the Spaniard and his considerable pedigree suggests he will eventually get things right. Nonetheless he is feeling the pressure.Injury listCaptain Vincent Kompany has had a horror run of injuries and there is concern that he will never be able to play regularly again. Ilkay Gundogan is out for the season with a knee injury, and Leroy Sane and Fabian Delph are both currently out. Fernandinho is currently banned for four matches after two Premier League red cards this season.Current moodThe optimism of the start of the season when City won their first 10 matches has been replaced by a reluctant acceptance that it will take time for the team to fully adapt to Guardiola's methods. That said, there is still confidence that City could close the gap on Chelsea and mount a late charge as they did in 2012 and 2014.DistractionsCity are still in the Champions League and are favourites to beat AS Monaco over two legs and advance to the quarterfinals. A less welcome distraction in recent weeks has been the constant red cards and recriminations around them, while Guardiola has looked preoccupied by his adversarial relationship with the media.ExperienceCity have won the title in two of the previous five seasons, but none since 2014. On both occasions, City have had to make up a lot of ground and have rattled off wins in the closing stages. Silva, Ag ero, Kompany and others remain from both of those triumphs, and will be hoping for a similar sprint finish this time around.Key playerAg ero. Guardiola dropped the Argentine for the trip to Barcelona but Ag ero remains as lethal as ever and has scored 17 goals in 21 matches this season.Strength in depthNot as great as it has been in previous years. When needing a goal against Liverpool, Guardiola only had Kelechi Iheanacho and Jesus Navas to summon from the bench. Nolito, when fit, provides a reasonable alternative to Ag ero, but City are too reliant on their big hitters to provide a spark.Big-match temperamentCity have won two and lost three against the rest of the big six this season. The defeats against Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur were particularly chastening but the win at Manchester United demonstrated City's fighting qualities.Remaining fixturesThree of the other top-six teams have to come to the Etihad, but the crux of City's season will come at the start of April when they face Arsenal and Chelsea away in the space of four days.So, can they win the title?Given the way they have fought back before, seven points is not an insurmountable deficit for this team. Next season may be more realistic, however. - CE Main strengthsOn their day, Arsenal are still capable of playing spellbinding attacking football, and their 3-0 evisceration of Chelsea in September was arguably the Premier League performance of the season so far. When their more pacy players are available, Arsenal retain the ability to produce devastating counterattacks that have typified all of the best Ars ne Wenger teams.Main weaknessesArsenal still struggle away in the biggest matches, and as Everton showed last month are still susceptible to a physical onslaught. Defensively there are concerns too, highlighted by a run of 12 matches without a clean sheet between October and December.ManagerSame old, same old. Wenger remains as wedded to his principles as when he arrived in north London more than 20 years ago, and continues to divide supporters. Entering the final year of his contract, fewer and fewer fans would like to see Wenger stay at the club.Injury listTypically, Arsenal have plenty of injury concerns, with Santi Cazorla's unavailability until March the most damaging blow. When Cazorla has started this season Arsenal's win percentage is 86%, whereas without him it's 46%. Francis Coquelin is also out for a month with a hamstring injury and Theo Walcott has missed the last three matches with a calf injury. Hamstring victim Mathieu Debuchy will be out for a couple more weeks. Per Mertesacker and Danny Welbeck are back in training after long-term injuries, and Mesut zil will soon return from illness. Wenger regrets Wilshere loan as injuries hit ArsenalCurrent moodPretty dark. There is a sense at the Emirates that lessons of previous seasons have not been learned, and the back-to-back defeats against Everton and Manchester City were worrying. Alexis S nchez's rage after the draw at Bournemouth summarised how many fans are feeling.DistractionsArsenal resume their Champions League campaign in mid-February with a difficult tie against Bayern Munich. In many of the previous 10 seasons, Arsenal's season has fallen apart in February and March when the burden of fighting on three fronts has overwhelmed their fragile squad. If they reach the latter stages of the FA Cup, there's little to suggest they will be able to avoid a similar fate this time. The contract situations of S nchez and zil are distractions Wenger could do without.ExperiencePetr Cech, zil and S nchez are among the players in the squad with experience of winning a top-flight title, but the biggest prize any of the team has won at Arsenal is the FA Cup. Largely the experience the squad has with Arsenal is of consistently finishing in the top four.Key playerS nchez, who has scored or assisted 30 goals in his last 31 Premier League appearances, has carried the team for much of the season.Strength in depthArsenal certainly have a bigger squad than ever before, but there remains a suspicion that many of the fringe players are not up to the required standard. The likes of Gabriel, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Mohamed Elneny have not exactly grasped their opportunities with both hands.Big-match temperamentPretty woeful. Arsenal have a reasonable record playing the big teams at the Emirates, but away from home they struggle badly against the rest of the top six, winning just two of their last 21 trips to Manchester City, Manchester United, Chelsea, Tottenham and Liverpool. This season they are joint bottom of the top six mini-league of matches against one another.Remaining fixturesGiven their weakness on the road against title rivals, trips to come to Stamford Bridge, Anfield and White Hart Lane will not fill Arsenal fans with confidence. At least both Manchester clubs have to come to the Emirates.So, can they win the title?It looks doubtful - Arsenal have too much ground to make up, and there's too little recent evidence to suggest they will win the big away matches required of them to be champions. - CE Main strengthsOne of the stronger defences of the big six teams, and in Zlatan Ibrahimovic arguably the stand-out striker in the Premier League this season.Main weaknessesUnited have struggled to break down massed defences this season and have thrown away a number of points in home matches. The transitional nature of the past few years has also left the team looking disjointed at various points, with new signings taking time to settle.ManagerAfter revealing how much he was battling to settle in Manchester, Jos Mourinho said this week that "I love my group so I'm really happy". He certainly appears to have been finding his feet at United, with seven straight wins a big relief after a slow start.Injury listWayne Rooney and Luke Shaw are out but are expected back sooner, and besides long-term cruciate ligament victim James Wilson, United have a clean bill of health. Man United boss Mourinho admits its Chelsea's title to loseCurrent moodBuoyant. A run of seven victories in all competitions has transformed the mood at Old Trafford and Ibrahimovic illustrated the increasing optimism by claiming on Monday that United could still win the league despite being 10 points off the pace.DistractionsUnited are still in the Europa League, which will mean a return to the Thursday-Sunday cycle in February. Mourinho though insists the cup competitions are not a distraction, which is lucky because United are also in the League Cup semifinal and yesterday began their FA Cup campaign against Reading.ExperienceOf the current squad, eight players have Premier League-winning experience, and the likes of Paul Pogba and Ibrahimovic have won plenty of titles abroad. Mourinho has also won every English competition as a manager and he will hope to bring that experience to bear with a team that has won just one trophy in the previous three seasons.Key playerIbrahimovic. The striker is United's top scorer this season with 18 goals, 12 more than Pogba and Juan Mata, who have the next most. Michael Carrick also deserves a mention for the way he has transformed the team since starting to play regularly again in November.Strength in depthUnited have a lot of options, and Mata in particular has been very effective coming on as a substitute. The likes of Marcus Rashford, Anthony Martial and Marouane Fellaini are also very useful options.Big-match temperamentMourinho has typically excelled in the biggest matches, but this season United are joint bottom of the top six mini-league. The 4-0 defeat at Chelsea will have particularly concerned the manager.Remaining fixturesUnited play Chelsea, Arsenal and Tottenham in their final six matches, by which time they could have closed the gap on the teams in front of them and then be left with their destiny, to an extent, in their own hands.So, can they win the title?The recent renaissance has been impressive but 10 points off top spot and five teams above them will prove to be too big a challenge. - CE