Here are three cool places to check out next time you're in the area:The Bolton Road Collection is a beautiful re-design of a once-perfunctory space that housed shops that never cut the mustard. Now it's a restaurant serving breakfast, lunch and supper with a buzzy bar that serves interesting cocktails and pumps 24/7.</img>Honey-smoked duck breast from the Bolton Road Collection. Image: Daylin PaulHoney-smoked duck breast from the Bolton Road Collection. Image: Daylin PaulWe ask chef Andrew Green to name some of the more popular dishes. Green mulls over the question, looking more than a little weary, working as he does in a restaurant filled to capacity since day one."It has to be the honey-smoked duck breast," he says. Confit of duck is brushed with honey, browned and smoked. The meat is shredded and piled in a cheffy stack with loads of fresh rocket and - the exciting bit - cubes of 'burnt' watermelon. Great textures.He dashes to the kitchen and returns with a plate of sea bass on a cauliflower pur e served with what has become his signature accompaniment, charred baby gem lettuce, interesting, and a coconut and garam masala sauce.He can't resist sharing his favourite dessert, a platter of what looks like Barbie accessories, perfect shapes in different hues of pink. There's nothing messy about the Eton Mess of delicate pieces of raspberry meringue, passion fruit curd, raspberry mousse, yuzu jellies and blackcurrant marshmallow.Call 011-327-6104.3 foodie highlights of Joburg's hip new art & design hubNews of a place serving authentic pizza spreads like wildfire in a city awash with lukewarm pizza eateries. The guys from Eatery JHB and Parliament in Parkmore have made the best of their tiny new space dominated by a pizza oven and open counters overlooking busy Bolton Road. Their philosophy? To bake the most authentic Neapolitan pizza they can with their two-day slow-rising yeast dough made with Italian 00 flour, which makes the crispest thin bases. They make small selection of pizzas with different toppings - sun-dried tomatoes, grilled artichokes, olives, basil, coppa - ingredients that line the counter in neat plastic containers. With just a sprinkling of tables and a small menu, pizza is THE thing, although they do serve a fish dish and a great plate of slow-cooked beef short ribs topped with a garlicky gremolata.If you can't find a table, order take-out and stand at the counter munching heavenly pizza and watching the traffic go by. It's a treat.Open Monday to Sunday for lunch and dinner. Call 010-900-4987. READ MORE: An authentic Neapolitan-style pizza spot fronts Joburg s newest speakeasyCoalition can unlock a secret space hidden behind a steel sliding door - if you crack the nod. Sin &amp; Taxes is a dark atmospheric place where mixologist Jason Short mixes exotic drinks and cocktails. This man is the bomb when it comes to mixing the most creative cocktails in town.Using homemade potions and botanicals, he whips up what he describes as "pre-prohibition and prohibition" drinks such as Cape Thief, a blend of Inverroche gin, Cape olive oil, verjuice, fresh lime and agave juice, garnished with basil.In a short time the previous sound engineer's new-found talent has taken him to Sweden, Mexico, Scotland and Cuba. Get there, it's the best-kept secret. Just make sure you Uber home.Open Tuesday to Saturday, 5pm to 1pm. Call 010-900-4987.