The news comes just days after Klaasen's daughter singer Lorraine Klaasen, confirmed on Facebook that the singer had been battling pancreatic cancer.The award winning singer and dancer died in the early hours of Sunday morning.Klaasen was a jazz musician from Sophiatown famous for her role in the musical King Kong.She began her career singing in local churches and wanted to become a jazz singer after she saw a jazz group perform at her school.In her teens, Klaasen was attacked with an acid bomb that permanently disfigured her face.</img>Thato, 13 and Dibuseng Motsekoa, 16, are the only survivors of a fire that killed their parents and three siblings. Here fire survivor Thandi Klaasen gives them support about six months after the horrific incident. Image: VELI NHLAPOThato, 13 and Dibuseng Motsekoa, 16, are the only survivors of a fire that killed their parents and three siblings. Here fire survivor Thandi Klaasen gives them support about six months after the horrific incident. Image: VELI NHLAPO</img>President Thabo Mbeki bestowed the National Orders on outstanding South Africans to Thandi Klaasen at the Union Buildings in Tshwane. Image: James OatwayPresident Thabo Mbeki bestowed the National Orders on outstanding South Africans to Thandi Klaasen at the Union Buildings in Tshwane. Image: James Oatway</img>Vinah bendile, Masoja Motha and thandi Klaasen during the 5th annual lunch to celebrate musicians of yesteryear held at the SAB Centenary in Johannesburg. Image: LEN KUMALOVinah bendile, Masoja Motha and thandi Klaasen during the 5th annual lunch to celebrate musicians of yesteryear held at the SAB Centenary in Johannesburg. Image: LEN KUMALO</img>The Classic FM Radio Station cheques shares presented to top South African music legend artist held at Rivonia Johannesburg. The Radio Station honoured artist for their contribution throughout their lives . From right; Sipho Mabuse; Abigail Kubheka; Queeneth Ndaba; Thandi Klaasen; Classic Music MD Denzel Weale and Thulasizwe Nkabinde. Image: MBU`ZENI ZULUThe Classic FM Radio Station cheques shares presented to top South African music legend artist held at Rivonia Johannesburg. The Radio Station honoured artist for their contribution throughout their lives . From right; Sipho Mabuse; Abigail Kubheka; Queeneth Ndaba; Thandi Klaasen; Classic Music MD Denzel Weale and Thulasizwe Nkabinde. Image: MBU`ZENI ZULU</img>Yvonne Chaka Chaka; Thandi Klaasen and PJ Powers seen at the Xolani Nkosi Johnson memorial service held at the Central Methodist Church in Johannesburg. Image: PAT SEBOKOYvonne Chaka Chaka; Thandi Klaasen and PJ Powers seen at the Xolani Nkosi Johnson memorial service held at the Central Methodist Church in Johannesburg. Image: PAT SEBOKO