As South African flag bearers in Super Rugby last season, the Lions can expect much scrutiny when this year's instalment kicks off next month.Having reached the final before they succumbed to the strong-willed charms of the Hurricanes, the Lions will again hope to lead the local charge, but being out front has its drawbacks.The rest have been able to watch their every stride and coach Johan Ackermann is acutely aware of the dreaded second- season syndrome. Cheetahs skipper to miss Super Rugby opener"That is our biggest challenge as coaches," he said this week as his side prepared for yesterday's friendly against the Bulls in Harare. "The guys mustn't believe everything will happen automatically."He now has to tread the fine line of not deviating too far from what has worked, while reinvigorating his team for what should be treated as a fresh challenge.To that end the coach says there is no need to reinvent the wheel but he still has to strike a delicate balance. But he has also had to yield to circumstance.Following their great performances last year, his players have been in demand."We are confronted by a different dynamic," said Ackermann. "Last year while we prepared we didn't have Warren [Whiteley], Jaco [Kriel], Franco [Mostert] and Andries [Ferreira] overseas as they were this time around," he said of some of his players with commitments in Japan.Add to that Faf de Klerk, Ruan Combrinck and Malcolm Marx were given time off in December following their exertions with the Springboks.It gets worse, however."Look at the team that lost in the final and compare it to what we will start with. We will be without four players who made a real impact for us. Ruan Combrinck [will return soon], Dylan Smith and Julian Redelinghuys carried injuries into this year, while Warwick Tecklenburg has retired. It's difficult to replace players like that."There is, however, the small matter of restoring the confidence of players who while at the Springboks never played with the vigour and dynamism that got them selected in the first place."It doesn't look like they are carrying any emotional scars," said the coach. "We support them. I think what happened was more about the collective than the individuals. They must forget what happened. Game management, playing in the right areas and decision-making are key. There is a time to play quickly and to slow things down "Let's believe those players also grew through their experiences. You can at that level, even if it isn't always positive. It's lessons no-one can take away from you."With players returning from injury and some having seen recent combat in Japan, Ackermann has to balance workloads."Jaco Kriel played 80 minutes in Japan a week or two back," he said while acknowledging he will have to manage his players even more judiciously this season.He has to achieve that in the hope his team, like last year, will hit the deck running and build momentum under the radar. While other coaches initially fiddled to find their best combinations, Ackermann knew how to best harvest limited resources. Lions player puts farming ahead of rugby and quits the game"A good start is imperative. Last year, we won our first three games but people tend to remember the three knock-out games."While the Lions played some of the most exhilarating rugby in Super Rugby last year, they were found wanting when variety would have better suited their cause."We learnt we have to be adaptable. In the final, for instance, it was all about accuracy and adapting to the conditions."Game management, playing in the right areas and decision-making are key. There is a time to play quickly and to slow things down," came Ackermann's tacit admission that you can't just play like a hurricane.They will soon find out if they have remained among the competition's elite."You only really know when you start playing. You then get a sense of what areas need urgent attention. Everybody starts at zero. You just hope that you're getting your preparation right. This is an uncertain time."sports@timesmedia.co.za