What is a barista, and where did you learn how to be one?A barista prepares and serves coffee. Norton Rose Fulbright upskilled me to my position and taught me everything I know about coffee. I was interested in hospitality and initially recruited for a client-service role, but I soon found my calling in making the perfect brew - that was three years ago. What is the most common order you get at your coffee shop?A cappuccino! I have been known to make more than 100 during the morning rush. Turning an athlete's focus onto businessWhat would you order if you were a customer at your coffee shop?A cappuccino, because they are fantastic and our most popular drink by far. Also, for me, the foam on top of the cappuccino is a canvas. Do the customers in the coffee shop appreciate your skills as a barista?I do get many compliments from local and international clients alike, and sometimes have special requests. In fact, some of our clients have been known to visit us just for a cup of coffee. Some of the most interesting creations I've made include portraits, messages, cartoons and client logos for our VIP guests. As an artist, I believe that making the perfect cup is both an art form and a science.You have created some amazing designs; where do you get your inspiration from?I get inspired each and every day by the customers I serve. I get great satisfaction from the enjoyment my designs bring and being told I've made my customers' day. Many of my clients post their artwork on social media, and I love being tagged (I am on Instagram at martinos.6). What are the most important things you do at work each day? Curiosity about PR cosmos and beyondFeed our lawyers' and clients' caffeine habits - with a smile! I represent the firm and take my job seriously. I also assist with functions and events and set up boardrooms; because I know my customers well, I'm aware of their needs so I always ensure everything is taken care of, and I make myself available to help with anything that comes up - be it in the kitchen, boardroom or canteen. What did you want to be when you were a child?An artist - particularly a cartoonist - as I love drawing and creating. What other career would you like to pursue if given the chance?Graphic design and information technology, as I am keen to learn more about software and use it to develop my creativity even further. I love computers. I've even designed and published an adult colouring-in book - freehand - called Tranquility in Colour. What part of your job do you wish you didn't have to do?Dealing with staff members can be challenging at times, especially when there are difficulties to resolve. But I love people so I face each challenge with a smile.