He has played 41 holes without dropping a shot.Not even the prodigious talents of former world No1 Rory McIlroy, sore back and all, could reel in the steady-as-she-goes approach of the Englishman, who will take a three-shot lead into today's final round.It is perhaps fitting the two men go toe-to-toe today.Storm supports Liverpool and McIlroy is a Manchester United devotee.Storm, who held the lead after the second round, carded a five-under 67 to go 17-under to maintain the gap he held over the Ulsterman at the start of the day.Going Storm chasing today may suit McIlroy's adrenalin-fuelled game but that approach undeniably remains laden with peril. The Englishman has already vowed to steer clear of drama.There was no need for the spectacular yesterday as percentage play yielded sufficient return for Storm in favourable conditions. It's Rorymania as McIlroy reinvents British invasion "It would have been nice to be within one or two [shots]. Maybe I can get off to a fast start and it will be interesting," said McIlroy about the deficit he has to wipe out.All Storm wants is a sub-70 round but he can be forgiven for having modest horizons. He has a more grounded perspective, poles apart from McIlroy, who is flush with sponsorship and endorsement deals.McIlroy, who is using new equipment this week, will today chase a man who says he's got a new lease on life after he almost lost his tour card last year. American Patrick Reed's failure to play in the required number of European Tour events last year earned Storm a reprieve.Storm is holding on to his second chance."When that almost happens, you think you can't afford to let it happen."It is my livelihood. I've got a young family I have to support. Not being out there would be like not having a job," he explained earnestly.McIlroy, who was almost forced to withdraw from the event due to a back injury after the second round, had to grit it out early on."It was pretty bad this morning [yesterday]," he said about his back. "The first four or five holes were uncomfortable."I actually took a few more anti-inflammatories on the sixth. The rest of the round it actually felt okay."It certainly didn't bother him by the time he got to the 12th, when the world No2 hit his five-wood drive 309 yards. It cleared the green. There were gasps from the assembled gallery.To be fair, conditions yesterday were more conducive to low scoring and several players relished the more receptive greens.Storm's countryman Jordan Smith and the highest-placed South African Jbe Kruger are four shots behind the leader.