Topshop has teamed up in the past with celebrities like Beyonc Knowles and Kate Moss to create memorable collections. Now the brand has decided to go the African route, selecting a South African style mover and shaker to be its inspiration.Sizani is known for her impeccable sense of style , so it was no surprise that she was asked by the international fashion chain to help put together a capsule collection reflecting her taste."Topshop South Africa approached me to curate a range for their brand. The retailer is known for their international collaborations with various style influencers under their banner."Hey-shoe-wow: Cape Town creative gives Puma sneakers a cosmic makeoverSizani handpicked the collection for Topshop: "My role for this project was essentially that of a curator, a guest editor and a style adviser."My task was to put together an edit of hero items that reflects my own fashion choices and highlighting specific essentials to customers."The aim was to bring a diverse range of Topshop pieces together for people to mix and match."It's possible to wear head-to-toe retail items but still look like an individual. With events such as the Sun Met coming up, shoppers will find various pieces to play with for the perfect race-day outfit, and of course, everyday life," she said.</img>A look from The Race Day Edit by Asanda Sizani, which is available at select Topshop stores for a limited time period. Image: Topshop South Africa/Instagram A look from The Race Day Edit by Asanda Sizani, which is available at select Topshop stores for a limited time period. Image: Topshop South Africa/Instagram African styles are gaining attention with international brands, who are now aligning themselves with the continent's fashion influencers, creating a further boost for Africa's fashion economy."When international retailers see value in aligning with locals, it's a good thing," said Sizani."We represent the local market and customers can relate to us. We're able to speak to the customer in an accessible way. Customers can enter a store, and see an African name, a local face they recognise."Sizani said she was honoured to have been chosen as a local influencer."I hope that more locals are given a platform to cooperate with globally recognised retailers."</img>A look from The Race Day Edit by Asanda Sizani, which is available at select Topshop stores for a limited time period. Image: Topshop South Africa/Instagram A look from The Race Day Edit by Asanda Sizani, which is available at select Topshop stores for a limited time period. Image: Topshop South Africa/Instagram Being a jack-of-all-trades, Sizani is working on multiple projects simultaneously."When you love what you do, are passionate and dedicated to the craft, you find a way to make it work. If I have to make sacrifices, stay up all night, or miss the social scene because I'm sitting at home doing research, or drafting proposals, so be it."I want to play an active role in the industry and seize every meaningful opportunity."This trailblazer is on a mission and certainly isn't slowing down any time soon. Asked what's next, Sizani replied: "I'm part of a team that's launching a new magazine this year. I'm also creating a platform for conversations around the fashion industry and will fully embrace this year by working on pan-African and international projects." The Race Day Edit by Asanda Sizani is available at select Topshop stores from January 13-27 2017. This article was originally published in The Times.