Necessity isn't the only mother of invention. Sometimes invention is born from a desire for the perfect pair of red-letter day shoes.Womenswear designer Elli-Nicole Sazeides has created a service that gives shoe-lovers the freedom to customise the swanky footwear of their dreams.Sling shots, blow-up dolls: 10 fantastical shoes you have to see to believeLaunched online last year, Elli-Nicole Shoes is a fun, six-step process in which clients can virtually "assemble" their own shoes by choosing from a selection of styles, colours, embellishments and accessories designed by Sazeides. Once the order is confirmed, the designer's team makes it up.The idea for the service occurred to Sazeides through interactions with clients from her bridal dress design business - she was often asked for suggestions on where brides could find the perfect shoes to complete their wedding outfits."It's about the magic of designing something that you absolutely love and being invested in the process. It's important to me to have customers purchase something they'll wear for years to come. Treasuring our purchases and honouring their lifespan is an important part of consuming intelligently," she says.It's not only brides who take advantage of the chance to create special shoes they'll be able to wear repeatedly, but also women wanting to tailor their shoes for other special occasions and even for work."What I love is how each combination expresses the personality of the owner and makes her feel transformed by her very own fairy godmother." What I love is how each [pair of custom shoes] expresses the personality of the owner and makes her feel transformed by her very own fairy godmother Four years of preparation went into Elli-Nicole Shoes before it went live. The final offering is a selection of four kidskin leather upper and lined heel styles - two closed and two peep-toe; a ballet flat style is also available."We researched the market extensively for two years to find what women look for in shoes, with particular reference to bridal and tailored our offerings accordingly. Leather was the only option for me - plastic and satin shoes are synthetic and therefore cannot mould to your feet or let them breathe. Our product is of a high standard and quality."Some of the shoe components are locally made and others internationally."Our shoes go through on average 15 pairs of skilled hands including mine before going to their forever closets."</img>Custom heels from Elli-Nicole Shoes. Image: Ellinicoleshoes.comCustom heels from Elli-Nicole Shoes. Image: Ellinicoleshoes.comSazeides first unearthed her strength for shoe design with the encouragement of then-Elle magazine editor Jackie Burger several years ago when she participated in a contest for emerging designers."I not only love shoes but am passionate about their proportions and details and how they make a woman feel. My most memorable pair of shoes was a pair of metallic gold ballet flats with a matching bow that my mom bought for me when I was three. I loved them so much I begged her to buy the next two sizes so I could wear them forever."Sazeide's team sometimes gets special requests for designs that go beyond what's available on their site."We get quite a few requests for colours we don't have on the website yet, which we happily fulfil. In the office we always say make a wish and it will be granted." Elli-Nicole Shoes are available at elli-nicole-shoes.myshopify.com. They ship nationwide. This article was originally published in The Times.