Great name for your new exhibition - what is the story behind it?It's a bold statement about Africa being on a different tangent while embracing a strong entrepreneurial spirit, rather than relying on "the mothership" global economy.Porky Hefer's quirky seats let you chill in the mouth of a beast What is this exhibition about?It's about me exploring deeper inside my head. Exploring more materials and traditional crafts and techniques. It is an exploration of perception and instinct, encouraging the viewer to go back to what is human, what is natural and what is playful.You have said you would like to create objects that inspire more instinctual behaviour. Can you elaborate?Most furniture has become very prescriptive. "Sit here. Like this and look at this. In fact read this coffee-table book while you sit there." I wanted to create pieces for which you had to realign your thinking.I want people to wonder what they are, what they are made of, how to get into them and how to sit in them.They are very playful and invite you to interact with them rather than discuss them. They all have multiple sitting or reclining positions so it's up to you to decide how to use them.How do you feel about 'Heart of Lightness' being on in New York?I'm really excited. New York is a tough market, but you can respond to it if you understand it.One difficulty is getting the pieces firstly into the gallery and then into the clients' houses or apartments, so a big consideration was size. I have designed them so they can be taken up narrow-ish stairs and elevators.What would you like to reveal about African design to New Yorkers?I want to challenge people to recreate their responses, preconceptions and limitations. I want to surprise people with something that is unexpected but still familiar to Africa.I want to highlight the vast resource we have of skills and creativity and the fantastic traditional techniques. Also, to show how the real Africa is a far more entrepreneurial economy; there are so many creative and problem-solving individuals.</img>Hefer makes furniture that makes people think about how they might use it. Image: Supplied Hefer makes furniture that makes people think about how they might use it. Image: SuppliedWhere is your favourite place to escape to?Into my own head or into a good book.Do you spend a lot of time in nature?Over the past four years I have been busy with a project in Namibia. The farm is in the southwest, about 70km from Sossusvlei. It is an incredible place, harsh but beautiful, with some of the oldest mountains on Earth.Being there has been a wonderful experience. Sleeping with a cheetah in my bed and getting to know him as he grew up from an orphaned cub was probably the highlight. Sitting down to dinner with 12 hunters discussing their day's kill was definitely the lowlight. Learning to live with the koringkriek (corn cricket) was probably the most testing.Your favourite materials to work with and why?The ballpoint pen. I am continually amazed at what you can achieve with a simple click of the Bic. You start with nothing and with a couple of lines you can create magic.When I first have an idea, I sketch it. The biggest mistake we make when we have an idea, is not taking it further. It is so easy to laugh it off, so easy to find reasons not to do something, then it vanishes into thin air.The minute you sketch something, it exists. It has a form, a shape that can explain something far more than just words. Everything I have made has started with a simple sketch with a black ballpoint.</img>A piece titled 'Caterpillar'. Image: SuppliedA piece titled 'Caterpillar'. Image: SuppliedWhat do you love to do when you're not working?I wouldn't exactly say that I work. I don't really have a distinction between what I do nine-to-five and after that. It's more about doing what I do to survive as opposed to working.If I am not creating I am not happy, so almost everything I do has something to do with my quest to make. Whether it is learning about African masks in local markets or travelling around Africa to discover new techniques or collaborators. Heart of Lightness runs from January 17 to February 23 at R &amp; Company in New York. South African design platform Southern Guild has worked closely with the US gallery to facilitate this groundbreaking show.