Q: My husband and I in New Zealand have booked flights to visit South Africa in March. Our travel agent has advised that we will now need a visa to enter the country, unlike on my previous visit.Got an EU passport? Visa-free travel may cost youI am advised that the South African Embassy in Wellington has not worked out the logistics of obtaining the visa. I live in Christchurch. Will I have to travel to Wellington to apply?Let's hope common sense prevails and it doesn't require a huge amount of paperwork. - Mo WestA: Yes, the South African government has imposed a visa requirement on New Zealand citizens, in retaliation for New Zealand's doing the same to South Africans as of November 21 last year. As of January 16 2017, New Zealanders will need three-month holiday visas to visit.The Department of Home Affairs advises that you will have to apply in Wellington. The High Commission is at Level 7, State Insurance Building, 1 Willis St, Wellington, phone 048-158-484.The visa will cost about R425. The government is reported to be looking at options to create a visa-issuing office in Auckland, but that would not help you as it's even further away.New Zealanders arriving here before January 16 will not need a visa to leave and will be subject to the usual 90-day limit on their stay.See the Department of Home Affairs website at dha.gov.za to clarify what documents you need to accompany a visa application before visiting the High Commission in person.These include:1) The purpose of your visit. A written invitation would help.2) The physical residential address where you will be staying, including the full name(s) of your host and/or hotel. If it's a hotel, you'll need proof of booking; if a private person, then a letter from your host.3) The name of organisations or persons you will be contacting during your stay, including name, address and your relationship to them.4) The identity number or permanent residence permit number of your SA host. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za