The 51-year-old president announced a state of emergency on Tuesday, saying it was necessary because of interference from foreign powers in the country's December 1 election, but the declaration has had little effect on attempts to remove him.Despite a midnight deadline for the expiry of Jammeh's term, the situation remained calm in the city overnight, witnesses said following a last-minute mediation attempt by the Mauritanian president. Jammeh, has ruled the former British colony with an iron fist for 22 years. His quirkier traits, such as his strong belief in supernatural powers and claims to have a herbal cure for HIV, often made international headlines.Here are a few of those quotes:1. "I will deliver to the Gambian people and if I have to rule this country for one billion years, I will, if Allah says so." 2. "The missile that downed the Malaysian plane, they say, is a Russian-made missile. But the weapons that are used in the barbarism in the barbaric act against the Palestinians were made by the West, and nobody is blaming them. Nobody talks about it; not even the U.N. Security Council can pass a resolution against Israel! "3. "What brought the British to the Gambia in the first place - which was bigger than it is now - was trade in ivory because the Gambia had a lot of elephants. They wiped out all the elephants and ended up selling Africans." 4. "People die in custody or during interrogations, it's really common. This time, there is only one dead and they want investigations? I will not," said the outspoken leader. 5. "I am not a witch doctor, and in fact, you cannot have a witch doctor. You are either a witch or a doctor."</img>Gambian President Yahya Jammeh has spoken out about the LGBT community on numerous occassions. Image: REUTERS MIKE BLAKE Gambian President Yahya Jammeh has spoken out about the LGBT community on numerous occassions. Image: REUTERS MIKE BLAKE 6. Some people go to the West and claim they are gays and that their lives are at risk in the Gambia, in order for them to be granted a stay in Europe. If I catch them I will kill them, he was quoted saying in a speech by African news service APA.7. Homosexuality is anti-god, anti-human, and anti-civilization. Homosexuals are not welcome in the Gambia. If we catch you, you will regret why you are born. I have buffalos from South Africa and Brazil and they never date each other. We are ready to eat grass but we will not compromise on this. Allowing homosexuality means allowing satanic rights. We will not allow gays here. 8. "I have never seen homosexual chicken or turkey."9. He said that homosexuality was more deadly than all natural disasters put together .