1) Pick the right potIf you cook a lot of pasta it may be worth investing in a pasta pot, which includes a colander that fits into it, as this simplifies the process.That said any large pot - with the emphasis on large - will do as pasta needs plenty of boiling water to cook it. Using too little water, or too small a pot, will result in your pasta getting gloopy.Spaghetti with zesty lemon sauce2) Buy the best quality pasta your budget allowsItalian brands tend to be better quality than local brands. Allow 125g of dried pasta per person; a 500g box will feed 4 adults.Traditionally thin strands of pasta, like vermicelli and spaghetti, are served with light creamy sauces. Larger and thicker strands (think tagliatelle and pappardelle) are served with a thicker sauce like a meat ragu.3) Add salt, but not olive oil to the waterSalt is essential as pasta cooked in unsalted water is flavourless. Add a generous pinch of salt (not coarse salt) to the water, but only do so once the water is boiling as salted water takes longer to boil.Don't add olive oil to the water as it is unnecessary and a waste of olive oil. No Italian cooks pasta with olive oil.Spaghetti & meatballs in tomato sauce4) It's OK to stir, but not to break the spaghettiDon t break the spaghetti into pieces before adding it to the boiling water. After a few minutes of cooking, you can use a large wooden spoon to stir the pasta gently so that all the spaghetti is submerged in the water. You may need to repeat the process.5) Don't overcook your pastaPasta should be cooked al dente , meaning it still has a bite to it. This generally takes about 12-14 minutes. (See the directions on the package.)Here's how to cook it: Bring a large pot of water to a rolling boil with the lid on as this speeds up the process. That said, don't cook the pasta with the lid on. Once the water has come to a rolling boil, add the pasta, not before this stage as it can make it gloopy. Time the cooking time from the moment the water returns to the boil. Give the pasta a stir - see point 4. Once the pasta is cooked, remove the pot from the heat. Remember it will continue to cook at this point, so don't leave the pasta standing in the water, drain it straight away. Retain 1- 2 tablespoons of pasta water to add to the sauce or back to spaghetti and toss through. Serve with a sauce of your choice.