World Rugby, the sport's governing body, has increasingly blunted the sport's roughest edges and much of their focus over the last few years has been on concussion-related injuries.Some former players and coaches who spoke to the Sunday Times are in agreement that player safety remains paramount, but that legislators should still be guided by common sense rather than the letter of the law.When it comes to high or dangerous tackles referees' actions are dictated by strict guidelines leaving little if no room for interpretation.Earlier this month World Rugby "redefined illegal [high] tackle categories and increased sanctions to deter high tackles via a law application guideline".They introduced minimum on-field sanctions for reckless and accidental contact with the head, effectively lowering the acceptable height of the tackle. What does the Lions coach have up his sleeve?Repeated head injuries to high profile players such as Wales's George North have also served to put the debate into sharp focus.All too aware that they may leave themselves open to potential class action by players who suffer head trauma, the game's governing body is doing and has made sure they are seen to be doing everything they can to limit significant head injuries.The National Football League earlier this month started settlements with retired players who accused the controlling body of not warning them and hiding the damages of brain injury. The agreement provides up to $5-million (R66.8-million) per retired player for serious medical conditions associated with repeated head trauma.Rugby wants to avoid that at all cost, but is the sport so rooted in primal endeavour being gradually emasculated?"I don't think the game will be watered down because if you look at the way the game has developed and the intensity at which it is played now compared to when I played, it is pretty tough," argued former Springbok wing James Small."Anything that is done to make the game safer has to be backed."World Rugby has to set the precedent and that filters all the way down to age-group levels. What has to happen is that players from a young age have to be taught the right tackling technique."Jerome Paarwater concurs. "I think defence coaches tend to focus on systems and not tackle technique. If your technique is poor you are more likely to go high."There is a trend with certain players," said the tough as teak former WP loose forward.Where both men, as well as former Bok captain Corne Krige agree is that referees should be allowed to use technology to arrive at sensible rather than prescribed sanctions."With foul play there should be zero tolerance. On the other hand you get a guy that ducks into a tackle, you can't just give the tackler a yellow card. That changes the whole dynamic of the game."It should be left in the judgment of the ref instead of sanctioning being based on what the law book prescribes. It affects games negatively and destroys good contests."Maybe because I was on the rough side myself I think there should be that element of roughness in the game. You can't overprotect players. For real foul play players should be punished and it should affect the game. I think they need to focus on the things that really matter and enforce them properly."