0 The number of alcoholic drinks Donald Trump has had in his life. Despite his lavish lifestyle, The Donald has never had an alcoholic drink, a decision influenced in part by his brother's (eventually fatal) battle with alcoholism.3 Trump has had three wives, more than any of the candidates he fought to get to the presidency. These include Ivana (Czech-American athlete and model), Marla Maples (television actress) and current spouse, Melania (jewellery designer and former model).0 Phone numbers Melania gave her husband-to-be when they met. He was on another date. "I said, 'I am not giving you my number; you give me yours, and I will call you'," she told a journalist. Dynasty:the reason Trump believes he was born to rule3 Phone numbers he gave her to call him. "I wanted to see what kind of number he would give me - if it was a business number, what is this? I'm not doing business with you." The two met up a few days later and began dating shortly after.5 The number of Trump's children.4 Trump corporate bankruptcies (some claim six). The man himself has emerged largely unscathed, thanks in part to tax and bankruptcy loopholes.6 Feet, 2 Inches Donald Trump's height, according to most celebrity magazines.6 Feet, 3 Inches Donald Trump's height, according to Donald Trump.16 Trump-owned golf courses listed on his official website.18 Bedrooms in "Trump Palace", The Donald's mansion in Palm Beach, Florida.42 Buildings with his name on them. (To date he has not managed to get the White House renamed after him.)0 Number of times he says he's used an ATM.282 Length of the yacht in feet Trump had to sell in the early '90s. He had to pay off a giant American Express debt, and the yacht provided the cash.16 Books published.2,327 The position of Trump's star on Hollywood's Walk of Fame. Trump earned it for his role on The Apprentice.</img>Donald Trump's third wife and former model Melania. Image: Getty Images Donald Trump's third wife and former model Melania. Image: Getty Images21 Seasons spent on either The Apprentice or Celebrity Apprentice.$375,000 Trump's rumoured per show earnings on The Apprentice.14,000 The number of apartments Trump owned at age 27.100+ Number of companies he owns.15 Companies that stopped doing business with him over his comments about Mexico.$10,000,000 The smallest denomination of money in Trump: The Board Game. The 1989 game was loosely styled on Monopoly, although Trump discontinued production shortly after launch due to poor sales.$4.5bn Trump's estimated net worth, according to Forbes magazine's team of researchers.</img>Trump, entrepreneur and billionaire, at home in Greenwich, Connecticut, in 1987. Image: GETTY IMAGESTrump, entrepreneur and billionaire, at home in Greenwich, Connecticut, in 1987. Image: GETTY IMAGES$8.7bn Trump's net worth, according to Trump. Trump later revised this estimate to "well over $10-billion", citing fluctuations in the stock market. Forbes magazine's explanation for the discrepancy? A "100% exaggeration" on Trump's part.$1,000,000 The amount his father loaned him in 1978 to start his own businesses. Trump also borrowed millions against his inheritance before his father's death.1 Times he sued a reporter for calling him a "millionaire".3,218.6 The length in kilometres of the wall he says he will build between the US and Mexico.