The laconic Scot said "Andy" was fine despite a decision by Australia's Channel Seven to refer to him as "Sir Andy Murray" at the tournament."I'm more than happy just being Andy. That's enough for me," he said. "Yeah, if they call me 'Andy', that's cool. I'd be happy with that."Murray is entering his first grand slam since being knighted and his first as world No1 after he displaced Novak Djokovic late last season.He appears to have taken both titles in his stride, insisting that he didn't feel anyone was treating him differently since he was crowned the world's top player. Tennis hit by graft infamy on the eve of grand slam"I haven't really noticed it. It kind of happened for me right at the end of the year, so I haven't been on the tour much as the No1 player," he said. "So I haven't noticed it yet. I don't know if that will come over time, if I'm able to stay there or not."More importantly, Murray is pondering how to win his first Australian Open title after being an unsuccessful finalist five times.Last year's appearance was torrid for Murray: his wife Kim Sears was heavily pregnant with their first child and his father-in-law collapsed while watching a match."It was a tough tournament," said Murray, who seriously considered pulling out and bolted for the airport after losing the final to Djokovic in straight sets."It was like, I want to be at home for the birth, but then I'm not just going to leave while my father-in-law is also in hospital," he added. "Yeah, it was tough, and certainly not a position I would want to put myself in again, or my wife, or any of my family really."This time Murray is in a far happier position and he will approach his opening match against Ukraine's Ilya Marchenko in a relaxed frame of mind.As well as becoming a father, he won his second Wimbledon title and successfully defended his Olympic singles gold medal."I obviously feel pretty confident after the way that last season finished," he said. "I do love it here. I love the conditions. I have played really well here over the years, and just haven't managed to obviously get over the final hurdle."But I think I'm in a decent position to do it. I think I have a chance to win here. Obviously nothing's guaranteed. But, yeah, why not?"He said he was also glad to have Ivan Lendl as his coach as he sets about trying to defend his ranking."I think it could be quite easy that once you get to No1 that you think, 'Well, actually, I just need to keep doing what I'm doing'," he said."The reality is, in sport, that things obviously keep moving on, the game will get better, I'll get older, the young guys will continue to improve.</img> World No.1 Angelique Kerber is preparing to defend her title at the opening grand slam of the year at Melbourne Park. Image: GETTY IMAGESWorld No.1 Angelique Kerber is preparing to defend her title at the opening grand slam of the year at Melbourne Park. Image: GETTY IMAGES"And also Novak and Roger [Federer] and Stan [Wawrinka] and Rafa [Nadal] and all the guys at the top are still going to be wanting to get there."So that's why having someone like Ivan on my team who has been in that position before and knows what that's like has been important."I need to continue to improve," he added. "Any weaknesses that are in my game, to try to get rid of them."Meanwhile, Federer said he was "clearly an underdog" for the Australian Open and admitted to uncharacteristic nerves yester day as he pondered a treacherous draw.The 35-year-old, back from a six-month injury lay-off, is seeded 17 at Melbourne Park, complicating his attempt for a record-extending 18th grand slam title.Two days from the start of the tournament, Federer was still in the dark about his first-round opponent as the qualifying rounds continued."Is it a lefty, a righty? It's a big deal. Is he a big server, a grinder?" asked the Swiss. "A bit of an unknown here the first round because that's the part of the draw I care most about because of having not been playing."Federer's path is strewn with hazards, as he faces potential matches with Tomas Berdych and Kei Nishikori before a possible quarterfinal with Murray.It's a prospect to give even the ice-cool Swiss pause for thought as he tries to craft his comeback from the longest injury break of his career, prompted by knee problems.</img> Novak Djokovic, who was displaced last year by Andy Murray from world No.1, is a tough competitor. Image: GETTY IMAGES Novak Djokovic, who was displaced last year by Andy Murray from world No.1, is a tough competitor. Image: GETTY IMAGESFederer's absence raised inevitable questions about retirement, but he said he was delighted to be back in a grand slam draw."As long as I'm healthy and I feel like I can go four, five sets, I can go many matches in a row, then I think it's going to be fun."He added: "It's a great draw because I'm in the draw. So for me I'm super-pleased that I made it here, that I have an opportunity to win matches."How many remains to be seen. I'm cautious myself. So, yeah, clearly an underdog this time around."Physical fitness could be a factor in what can be the most gruelling conditions of the year, with temperatures forecast to soar towards 40 C this coming week.Federer has played only three singles matches since July, but he said he had been trying to simulate the endurance needed for five-set grand slam encounters in training.A glowing Serena Williams said she is so focused on trying to win another grand slam title she hasn't let her engagement to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian sink in.The American powerhouse broke the news of her impending nuptials with a poem in late December on her verified Reddit account, revealing that the 33-year-old went down on one knee during a trip to Rome.But as she attempts to break Steffi Graf's Open-era record of 22 grand slam titles at Melbourne, Williams isn't allowing her personal life to interfere with her preparations."I've said from the beginning, I just didn't want to think about it until after Australia because grand slams mean a lot to me," she said yesterday. "It's almost a little unreal right now because I haven't taken it in. I'm being rather selfish and focused on my career."</img> A glowing Serena Williams said she is so focused on trying to win another grand slam title she hasn't let her engagement to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian sink in. Image: AFP A glowing Serena Williams said she is so focused on trying to win another grand slam title she hasn't let her engagement to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian sink in. Image: AFP Williams did say being engaged was "really great", but she insisted tennis was her current priority as she sizes up a difficult first-round clash against Switzerland's Belinda Bencic - in forecast sweltering heat."I won't allow it to sink in because I'm so focused. I'm really focused on training, cardio, all kinds of stuff," said the 35-year-old. "Now I'm on the road, already back at work. I don't want to get too happy because I want to stay focused."Seeded two, Williams, who lost the top world ranking to Angelique Kerber last year, has her work cut out if she is to go one better than Graf.If she gets past Bencic, she could encounter either in-form Briton Johanna Konta, who won the lead-up Sydney International on Friday, or sixth seed Dominika Cibulkova in the quarterfinals.She has barely played since the US Open last September due to injury. Her build-up to the Australian Open was far from ideal when she was bundled out of the Auckland Classic last week in the second round.Despite the setback, the six-time winner remains confident. "I've been spending so much time on the court. It feels really good to be back, just hitting on Rod Laver [Arena], hitting on all the stadiums, it's a good feeling. I love it here."