The big return home brought with it mayhem and carnage on the roads.Emergency services and paramedics have had their hands full as wet weather and recklessness resulted in a number of crashes along the country s major routes. A Mpumalanga fireman is believed to have drowned after he attempted to rescue a taxi driver and two passengers who had run into trouble on a water-logged bridge yesterday. Joseph Mabuza, Community Safety, Security and Liaison spokesman, said the taxi driver was attempting to cross a bridge which was engulfed by water from the heavy rain in the Kwaggafontein area. Apparently there were three people in the taxi including the driver. The fireman was able to rescue the driver and one passenger. He returned to rescue the remaining passenger but unfortunately the water swept the taxi away and they both disappeared. An intensive search had been instituted. In a separate incident yesterday seven people including a young boy were injured on the notorious N3 Van Reenen s Pass near Harrismith after two vehicles collided.According to Netcare 911 spokesman Athlenda Mathe poor visibility was likely to have caused the crash. Down pours cause mayhem on the roadsTwo of the critically injured were airlifted to hospital. Passengers on a Translux bus near George in the Western Cape had a lucky escape after the bus caught alight early Saturday morning. While the vehicle was completely burnt, no injuries were reported. It is unclear what caused the fire.On Friday night four women were killed and five children critically injured when the bakkie they were in overturned in the Northern Cape.Fifteen other adults were found with injuries ranging from moderate to severe. The children who died were aged between one month and 11 years.ER24 spokesman Werner Vermaak said paramedics and emergency services arrived shortly before midnight at the accident scene, on the N14 about 100km outside Olifantshoek.On Friday afternoon on the N4 highway, Pretoria, four people died and 20 others were injured after a taxi collided with another vehicle.Three of the injured - including a child - were in a critical condition.It is believed the taxi s tyre burst, resulting in the collision. According to the N3 Toll Concession which provides traffic updates from KwaZulu-Natal to Gauteng motorists began their trek home from Friday,with an average of 1,000 cars passing through the toll plazas every hour.The Transport Department said yesterday South Africa had experienced unacceptably high levels of crashes and fatalities with human factors contributing about 80%, road and environmental factors 10% and unroadworthy vehicles 10% to the accident rate.Transport Minister Dipuo Peters is expected to reveal the full extent of the festive season carnage and contraventions on Tuesday.Since the start of the festive season over 800 deaths were recorded. However Peters will release the final figure at her Tuesday briefing.Transport ministerial spokesman Ishmael Mnisi said yesterday the festive season had brought with it unprecedented and daunting challenges in the form of spree drinking, inclement weather, impatience and lawlessness on the roads. Mnisi said irresponsible drivers had cost South African dearly . They have left orphans, widowers and widows through their selfish and irresponsible conduct. 