WHERE IT ISSnake up Hilton Hill Road, Maseru, past the majestic parliament building and there stands Avani. It's only a five-minute drive from the SA border (plus another four hours from Joburg) or 30 minutes from Maseru Airport. Freedom trails: The best of SA's cultural tourist sites STYLEEach room has a balcony that urges the gorgeous mountain-meets-city scenery into your view - that's 158 balconies overlooking Lesotho's capital. The contemporary rooms feature a full range of amenities including twin beds, satellite television, wifi, an electronic safe, desk, bath and separate shower, tea and coffee station, etc. If you'd like more room (and a bigger bed), larger options are available, including 64 executive rooms, 14 superior rooms and two presidential suites.SERVICEThe Basotho are remarkably genuine. Their friendliness didn't at all seem attached to obligatory hospitality. I found it impossible to walk down a corridor without a cheerful greeting from staff. A zealous porter and a nightly turndown service are just some of the extras and the kitchen will oblige your in-room munchies until 3am. FOOD AND BARSWith two restaurants, dining at Avani is considerably relaxed. Nala Caf , a buffet-style treat overlooking the pool, serves breakfast to dinner. Chef Jan Botha combines African delights, Western favourites, lip-smacking roasts and creative salads. Ying Tao Grill is an Asian pleasure serving up everything from chow mein to a fantastic fish dish. The hotel also has three bars, some of which also serve food. The local beer, Maluti, is one that holds national pride. Be sure to add an ice-cold few to your tab. HOTEL FEATURESOriginally intended as a business venue, Avani features six meeting venues. Some of the smaller venues seat 10 people while the larger can be converted to seat 200 conference-goers. Events and weddings are welcome.Lift the weight off a tiresome day at the in-house Essentials Health &amp; Beauty Spa. There's also a gym and a pool.ACTIVITIESThe casino is the biggest drawcard for non-guests. With a smoking and non-smoking area, it's a floor of insistent slot machine bell-ringing and table-banging from highly strung roulette and blackjack players. The hotel has recently started offering tourism packages, with most activities taking place in and around Maseru: Head to Lesotho's hills to escape the heatwave A Maseru city tour that includes the local market, a craft market and viewing King Moshoeshoe's statue and other city landmarks; A visit to the highest concrete-face, rock-filled dam in Africa: Mohale Dam. There, at about 2000m above sea level, you can take a tranquil boat cruise. A tour of the Thaba Bosiu Cultural Village, a mock-up of the first Lesotho homes, offers many tales and lessons about Basotho culture and heritage.Back at the hotel, moderate hikes and cycling opportunities are available, plus there's a golf course nearby.BEST TIME TO GOI went in summer and it was sweltering. However, between chilled cocktails, a few dips in the massive pool, air-conditioning and an isolated rainstorm, I survived. I have it on good authority, though, that a winter visit up in the mountains is a brutal but breathtaking experience for the brave. RATESFrom R2,103.30 per room, including taxes and breakfast. Kids under 7 stay free and under-12s are charged 50% for breakfast when sharing with a parent. CONTACT See minorhotels.com/en/avani/lesotho or e-mail lesotho@avanihotels.com. GETTING THEREAirlink offers a wide network of regional and domestic flights within Southern Africa and operates as a franchisee to SAA, servicing more than 1 million passengers to 35 destinations in nine African countries. It offers direct scheduled flights between Johannesburg and Maseru, Lesotho. See flyairlink.com or call SAA Central Reservations on 011-978-1111. Nkomo was a guest of Avani Lesotho Hotel &amp; Casino.