The idea is simple: download the UberEATS app on your smartphone, order food from your favourite restaurant within a nearby radius, and then have the food delivered to your doorstep for a flat delivery fee of just R20.Since its launch, UberEATS has partnered with over 95 restaurants in Joburg, with more being added every day. We chat with Uber s Samantha Allenberg to see how things are going.How has the response been to UberEats so far?The uptake since launch has been phenomenal and we re so excited about the potential. There have been over 100,000 app downloads since launching, and some restaurants have been getting over 100 orders a day through the Eats app. We ve recently expanded from Joburg s northern suburbs to also include Midrand, Fourways, Sunninghill, Lonehill and Dainfern, and we ll soon add Bedfordview and the CBD to our locations.Cape Town gets its first taste of UberEATSWhat types of restaurants are proving to be most popular?UberEATS partners with local restaurants across Joburg. So, for example, a local restaurant in Rosebank won t be available to someone in Fourways. Because of this, popularity of restaurants varies depending on the area. However, from our data, we ve seen that Momo Baohaus in Greenside and the Philly Cheesesteak Co chain have been two of the most popular restaurants on our books.Any pain points you re dealing with?There are always challenges when launching a new product. For us, these have been mostly to do with delivery times and ensuring there is enough supply to meet demand. Demand was huge in the initial weeks, but we only launched in a few areas to ensure we offer a great product. What are your future expansion plans?Our ambition is to have UberEATS everywhere. Any progressive, forward-thinking city that has a need for an easy, convenient and efficient on-demand delivery app we want to be there. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.