You also needed to be goal driven and know what you want, said Johannesburg educational psychologist Rayhanah Hassim. Just ask Duncan Mabasa of Risinga High in Giyani, Limpopo, who, despite lacking access to a proper laboratory, scored 100% in physical science and maths. "I didn't get to do experiments at school because we didn't have much in the lab and the chemicals had expired, so I taught myself. I watched YouTube videos and I read." Not that he's the average pupil; he started reading conceptual physics in Grade 7. "I've been top of the class since day one." So is he a genius? School where nothing less than 100% will doIt's not possible to say that someone was gifted until they had been professionally assessed, said educational psychologist Annette du Plessis, who specialises in psycho-educational assessments. "In the case of the 100-percenters, they may have a very high cognitive potential or an aptitude for particular subjects. Then again, they may be of ordinary intelligence but work consistently hard and achieve excellent results through utilising effective study methods." Cape Town's Bronson Rudner matriculated with full marks in maths and physical science. The South African College High School pupil prepared for the exams by completing seven past papers in every subject. "It worked for last year's top student, so I thought: 'Why shouldn't it work for me?'" If you didn't cotton on to the basics in your first few years at school you would suffer later , he added. "It is fundamental to understand the basics." Hassim agreed. Good early stimulation is essential. "There is a trend ... learners who do well in primary school [tend] to do well in high school."On the flip side, said Du Plessis, high achievers were often under a great deal of pressure. "They often give up sport, socialise less and deal with a lot of anxiety. This amount of hard work can lead to mental and physical health problems." Muhamed Charfaray of Maritzburg College admitted his environment was particularly competitive. He got eight distinctions, an A for additional maths - an Independent Examinations Board subject - and 100% in physical science. "I was very stressed - I'd get upset if I lost one or two marks. At times I wanted to give up. My parents were very supportive. They would tell me to do my best and not to worry about coming top."