When I read Allan Loeb's script I was very, very taken with this story and thought its fundamental message was quite beautiful. Collateral Beauty is a very life-affirming, optimistic film, in a way, and also something I could believe in: that in their darkest hours, in their most challenging times, people can find real beauty in their lives. The true story behind 'A Monster Calls' is as touching as the movie itselfPlaying an abstract concept [Mirren's character Brigitte embodies Death] made me remember when I was doing Antony and Cleopatra on stage: the director wanted Michael Gambon, who was playing Antony, and me to do an improvisation. I was asked to play a lettuce leaf and he was asked to play a feather duster. Actors enter into these kinds of situations quite often. We engage in the world of imagination and try to bring it to the audience.It's a drawcard when one of your co-stars is Will Smith, who is a wonderful actor and a wonderful person. Will approaches his work in a light way. He's very communicative with everyone on the set, but, at the same time, he is capable of gravitas and seriousness - in this he plays a person in deep psychological pain, and he didn't shy away from that, ever. Neither did he carry it on the set like a big, dark cloud over him. He's capable of being utterly serious and playful at the same time.For Brigitte's impersonation of Death, we settled on the colour blue. I didn't want it to be black; it could not be black. She's not a grim reaper. David [Frankel, director], Leah [Katznelson, costume designer] and I discussed this a lot.I did an internet search for images of death - which were all ghastly. One thing I did like was a bluebird, which in some cultures is an image of death. Blue is the colour of the sky and the sea, and it has an eternal feel about it. It's not depressing, but it's not cheery. So a lot of thought went into that. Brigitte's feathered scarf is a reflection of the bird image.WATCH the trailer for Collateral BeautyNTIt helped that we were shooting on location in New York. I defy anyone not to find New York at Christmas a magical place - the lights, the shop windows and all the rest of it, even though we weren't shooting at Christmas, we were shooting at Easter. We had to recreate New York at Christmas.I hope audiences are uplifted and moved by Collateral Beauty. I hope the film gives them optimism and a strength to help them through dark times. Collateral Beauty will be in cinemas on January 27 2017.Sunday Times Lifestyle readers can win tickets to complimentary screenings of Collateral Beauty in Cape Town, Durban and JoburgTime: 8pmDate: Thursday, January 26 2017Venues: Cape Town: Cavendish cinema 5; Durban: Gateway cinema 5; Johannesburg: Sandton City cinema 2TO ENTER: SMS the keyword BEAUTY, followed by CT, DBN or JHB, and your FULL NAME to the number 39710 (for example: BEAUTY - DBN - FRED SMITH).Terms &amp; conditions: EACH SMS COSTS R1.50. Please note free smses do not apply. Lines close at 12 noon on Wednesday, January 25 2017. Winners will be notified by SMS. Terms and conditions apply.