The man behind the interactive and easy-to-use download is Andre Watermeyer founding director of Intshebe Digital a man so passionate about Durban that he has the city s area code - 031 - tattooed on his arm.Watermeyer grew up in Durban spent time working in Cape Town and six years ago returned to Durban to offer digital services to small businesses. At that point he started a lifestyle blog and was keen to create an app. About a year ago the City put together a forum to investigate why Durban didn t have a great night life and how this could be addressed. From there a conversation with the City began. Inshebe Digital developed and administrates the HeyDurban app which was launched on January 25 and currently features 700 establishments and services. It is owned by Durban Green Corridor a public benefit organisation.The app can call a venue; see its trading hours; send a mail; share the venue or event via social media; get directions; buy tickets directly; and request an Uber.The key feature says Watermeyer is that it uses location. The goal is to get people to go to places they may not know are around. You open the app and you can see is everything around you. There might be a comedy show on 200 metres away. You can link directly to ticket sales and then request an Uber without having to put in the address it is sent automatically. The service is free for businesses and easy to use. It takes a matter of minutes to list and the business is then supplied with real time analytics on a weekly or monthly basis. Businesses take control of their profiles and if there are changes for example to trading hours they log in and make the change.An administration platform checks information loaded and maintains quality control.Dylan Shaw owns two Durban businesses that are benefiting from the application a coffee shop Noble Coffees and an entertainment company that primarily runs comedy shows. It s a great platform for hospitality trade because it allows businesses to market themselves properly without having to sell a kidney and is really user friendly. Watermeyer says what makes the difference is that the project was not about how to make money. Apps are not particularly lucrative. It s about a bunch of passionate Durbanites rooting for Durban. It is available for iPhone and Android users.TMG Digital/TimesLIVE