Chefs is a no-frills cafeteria that serves restaurant-quality food. You can enjoy a delicious balanced meal within minutes of arriving. A choice of three meals is posted on the website each day: a light meal, a veggie option and a more substantial meat-based dish, plus an optional dessert. Cape Town gets its first taste of UberEATSOrder and pay via the iPad on arrival, then your customised tray of food is brought to you from the open kitchen headed by chef Jenny Ward. Dishes such as wood-roasted chicken, bourbon BBQ-basted Karoo lamb, smoky beef carpaccio, roasted beetroot terrine, and side dishes of salads, salsa and vegetable chips have the complexity and flavour of upmarket restaurant fare.Stepping off Loop Street into House of H is like entering a welcoming parallel universe, a steampunk delight of Victorian wood-fired range, copper piping, long tables, a living wall of herbs. At the kitchen counter you meet H (chef Heinrich Koen), ready to talk you through your order. The short, steak-focused menu is designed for quick cooking and feel-good eating, and the card swipe system makes self-service a breeze. There is grass-fed organic beef dry-hung so it cooks in minutes for rib-eye, sirloin, beef ribs, steak rolls and brisket sarnies. Sustainable fish, hand-cut chips, fresh salads and veggies from a community urban organic garden, and home-grown oyster mushrooms for substantial mushroom burgers. There s also a bar, coffee shop, barbers, and, coming soon, a rooftop tattoo parlour.</img>House of H's short, steak-focused menu is designed for quick cooking. Image: SuppliedHouse of H's short, steak-focused menu is designed for quick cooking. Image: SuppliedAn unpretentious take on the German beerhall, upstairs from buzzing House of Machines on Shortmarket Street, Sneaky Sausage is the place to discover the difference between bratwurst and knackwurst in a pared back, no-fuss setting. A hit with the cool crowd, the signature dish is the currywurst, and, in case this sounds dangerously close to fast food, all the meat is carefully sourced, with a daily special sausage from Frankie Fenner Meat Merchants, guaranteed to be ethically produced. There are also vegan sausages and the tempting deep-fried bits on the side include sweet potato fries with truffle oil and polenta, or jalapeno wontons with aioli. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.