For all its flaws, 2016 had something major in its favour: humanity entered it knowing a new Adele album was on its way. This year lacks even that, and by now we're all sick of Hello. On the plus side, though, there are some juicy new TV shows on the horizon for us to watch from underground bunkers after Trump gets frisky with the nukes.There are a few shows in particular that are getting my juices flowing in anticipation. Remember Archie comics? Ginger-headed simpleton inexplicably in demand with the ladies? A live-action version of the comics, called Riverdale, will be hitting screens in 2017. 'Dinner for One': the drunken butler who speaks for us allAnd whereas the comics were squeaky clean - often the greatest drama available revolved around how many burgers Jughead could eat in one sitting - the drama series sounds distinctly darker, and more interesting.Then there's Big Little Lies, a new HBO series due next month, which is most obviously noteworthy for its star horsepower: Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon and Laura Dern are all in it, playing mothers in a drama about family life and betrayal. Stars are also out in force in Feud, the latest show from Glee creator Ryan Murphy. Susan Sarandon and Jessica Lange go head-to-head to tell the true story of the rivalry between actresses Joan Crawford and Bette Davis.In addition to the new stuff, some old favourites are back this year. Wobbly-lipped counter-terrorism expert Carrie Mathison returns later this month in the sixth season of Homeland. This time round she's living in Brooklyn. The poor woman moves cities so often that receiving post must be a nightmare. Another beleaguered female character will be restored to us: Olivia Pope comes back in the latest season of political drama Scandal, or as we call it, The Fixer. Did the former US president's wife win the election? Maybe things played out better for Mellie on screen than they did for Hillary in real life.Game of Thrones season seven will be with us mid-year, just in time for our winter. It's the penultimate season, so one assumes that the writers are having to start wrapping things up plot-wise pretty sharpish. Get a move on, Daenerys!On the local front, pickings are slim and the same old faces are everywhere. Buddies Janez Vermeiren and Siv Ngesi - or as M-Net calls them, "heartthrobs" - are hosting a travel show called Wingin' It, where they travel the world being handsome. I'm more excited for the return of The Voice, the local singing competition which proved surprisingly entertaining in its first incarnation. Also, Gareth Cliff isn't in it: always a bonus.