Amla was the 68th player to join the exclusive "100 Test Club" and when his storied career started at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata in 2004, it was difficult to think his wrists would still be honest to his game nearly 13 years down the line.Amla will forever be remembered for these three highs and two lowsHIGHS149 v New Zealand at Newlands: When Amla nudged the single that earned him his maiden test 100, SABC commentator Gareth Flusk said Amla needed to be applauded for sticking with what worked for him in the domestic game. His backlift and technique were thoroughly scrutinised and criticised but at an early autumn Newlands already anaesthetised by a Stephen Fleming double hundred and James Franklin's maiden century, the platform was set for a career that continues to thrive Second coming of the mighty Hash490 runs v India in two matches: It was fitting that Amla stamped his authority on the game in the country that welcomed him warmly. With 253 not out in Nagpur and 114 and an unbeaten 123 in Kolkata, he showed the versatility and skill needed to thrive as a top-class batsman in India. Amla had arrived a on the 2007/08 tour with 159 in Chennai that was overshadowed by Virender Sehwag's triple hundred. This was a foretaste of bigger scores to come.311 not out v England at the Oval: The masterpiece of South African batting and it was fitting that it was compiled against the team that gave him the most grief at the start of his career. There were no survivors from the 2004/05 side that terrorised him but if there was a batsman who could breach the 300-mark, it was him. The score of 637/2 will forever reverberate at the London groundLOWS2 and 6 v England at Kingsmead, 2009: While Amla has sustained success against England, they have provided the unwanted low points at home. This one stands out for his struggles against Graeme Swann which he duly corrected two years later. South Africa were subjected to an embarrassing innings defeat and Amla's run drought had a lot to do with that. It wasn't the first time England were going to spoil Amla's Durban homecoming.7 and 12 v England at Kingsmead, 2015: This test was the nadir of Amla's captaincy after the difficult tour of India. It seemed like England's bowlers had his number, but a tired and disappointed team also lacked the requisite stomach for a fight. It was a good thing that he was to sign off the captaincy with a 201 in the next test, but it was here where his bolt was shot before it was restored.