Cameroon travelled to Gabon with arguably their weakest squad yet at the tournament, but Hugo Broos's side played well for much of their opening draw with Burkina Faso and showed great spirit to come from behind against Guinea-Bissau."Our first-half performance was not worthy of the Indomitable Lions, it was more like tame lions," he said. "I have never seen such a weak team. There was nothing, no aggression, no fight. Costa's row with Chelsea is all about agent power play"But I think we deserved to win the game on the basis of our second half. We came here to get through the group."Guinea-Bissau, known as the Wild Dogs, now have to win their next match against Burkina Faso to stay alive, though they could be aided by injuries that have hit Paulo Duarte's team. Costa's row with Chelsea is all about agent power playThe Stallions lost star man Jonathan Pitroipa and Jonathan Zongo to injury as they failed to hold onto the lead given to them by Nakoulma midway through the first half in the Gabonese capital.'I'll never join Bayern'STAR striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has admitted he could leave Borussia Dortmund in the summer - but has insisted he will never join their Bundesliga rivals Bayern Munich."I will never go to Bayern, that is for sure," Aubameyang told new German sports daily FussballBild, which launched on Friday, while on Africa Cup of Nations duty with Gabon."That would be too hard for the Dortmund fans. It wouldn't matter what they offer me, I would say no. Doing something like that doesn't fit with my mentality, so Bayern is out."Aubameyang is the German league's top scorer this season with 16 goals in his 15 Bundesliga matches and has a Dortmund contract until 2020.However, he has repeatedly expressed his desire to eventually join Spanish giants Real Madrid, to keep a promise he made to his grandfather just before he died. Khanyiso Tshwaku looks at the pros and cons of SA players heading to Europe. Now that Dolly has signed for Montpellier, it remains to be seen if he'll adapt and make it"You know, some players have ambitions, so they leave to see something else," added the 27-year-old.His flat refusal to join Bayern will come as a relief to Dortmund fans, who have seen Robert Lewandowski, Mats Hummels and Mario Goetze, who later re-signed for Borussia, join the Munich giants in recent years.But while Aubameyang promises "100%" to stay with Dortmund until the end of the season, he would rule nothing out after that."No one can see the future. All that is sure is that I am with Dortmund and love it there," he said."But I can't say that I will stay two more years, or five, or 10."It is possible that in June, a club comes along who will find a solution with Dortmund, and I'll go, but at the moment I am really not thinking about that."I am concentrating about my job with my colleagues in Dortmund and Gabon."The German league resumes after the winter break on Friday with leaders Bayern at Freiburg, while sixth-placed Dortmund - without Aubameyang - are at Werder Bremen.