Stripped of cushions, upholstery or other traditionally aesthetic elements, the chair was, as per the vision of designers Bill Stumpf and Don Chadwick, a "true machine for sitting".In a serious nod to the virtues of its modern design, the design curator for New York's Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) Paola Antonelli, selected the chair as her first acquisition for the museum's permanent collection.Thanks to its revolutionary ergonomics and increasingly popular design, the Aeron soon became the bestselling and most recognisable performance chair of all time. Today, with over seven million sold in 134 countries, the chair holds pride of place both in healthy offices and popular culture.Aching back? How to take the strain out of your desk jobMore than 20 years down the line, the classic chair has been relaunched.While the newly released Aeron retains the skeletal silhouette of its predecessor, the overall structure has been updated for a more technologically advanced and healthy sit something Mark Catchlove, as Herman Miller's director of knowledge and insight, knows all about.We asked him more about how to create an ergonomically sound workplace.What is the importance of ergonomics in an office? If you have an office-based job, chances are you will spend a lot of time there. Ergonomics looks at how people interact with their environment and tools. It's not a question of just having an ergonomic chair, or desk, or monitor arm, but how these work together.Tips for making your office desk more ergonomic?Your chair should be adjusted so your feet are firmly on the floor, with your thighs parallel to the floor. Your back should make good contact with the back of the chair. Your desk should be set up at the right height (there are industry standards for both seated and height-adjustable desks), and your forearms should be roughly parallel to the work surface. Your wrists should be in a neutral position, with your keyboard at a comfortable distance. Finally, make sure that your screen is in the right position, about an arm's length away and slightly below eye height.What to look out for when selecting an office chair?Look at the work you do and how long you spend sitting down, as office chairs can offer different degrees of ergonomic support. That said, most modern office chairs will support you comfortably for eight hours a day. Look for a chair that offers a full range of adjustment. So, for example, our new Aeron chair (which is a remastered version of the 1994 original) has updated controls that can be adjusted in fewer turns than before, making it quicker and easier to tailor your sitting experience. Stylish buys that'll turn your office into a productive sanctuaryIn addition, a chair that offers additional lumbar support can be helpful - all Herman Miller chairs have had the option of PostureFit, which allows the pelvis and base of the spine to maintain a forward position, supporting the lower back. If you're comfortable, you will concentrate better and be more productive.Does an ergonomic solution differ from person to person?Absolutely. While there are averages that most people fall into, there are always personal adjustments, especially if you are particularly tall or short.If you are desk-bound, what are some things you should be doing to avoid aches and pains?The best thing you can do is stand up and move about. The human body was made to move, and for the first six million years that's what we did. You don't need to move for extended periods, around 10 minutes every hour is plenty. Better still, have a desk that is height-adjustable so you can stand up to work whenever you want.For more ergonomics info, visit Herman Miller's public resource: ergonomicshub.com