Official documents show the minister's involvement in the smuggling scandal in 2014 was well documented by several high-ranking officials, yet no action has been taken against her. President Jacob Zuma said this week that he was still "engaging" Mapisa-Nqakula about the incident. The Sunday Times broke the story of Mapisa-Nqakula's involvement in the case in May last year. She then confessed that she flew from Waterkloof Air Force Base to the DRC to fetch Michelle Wege on January 28 2014. She claimed she had helped the woman because Wege was a family friend and was being abused by her father. Defence minister's taxi serviceHowever, Wege's father, Burundian businessman Laurent Wege, denied this. He said his daughter had told him she was engaged to the minister's son Chumani, who died a year later in a stabbing incident. Wege was living at the minister's home in Bruma, Johannesburg, at the time.Abdoulkarim Ciza, who worked for the South African embassy in Burundi for 11 years, told the Sunday Times that he was instructed by the minister's sister Nosithembele Mapisa to help 20-year-old Burundi national Wege get into South Africa on a fraudulent document.Nosithembele was the deputy ambassador to Burundi at the time. She told Ciza the instruction had come from the minister.When the operation went wrong and Ciza and Wege were arrested in the DRC, Wege was whisked to South Africa in Mapisa-Nqakula's jet. Ciza was left in jail and later fired for his role in the operation.Government sources told the Sunday Times this week that a political compromise had been reached behind the scenes to make Ciza the scapegoat and sack him to protect the Mapisa sisters. "Nosithembele was suspended for 17 months for her role in the matter and subsequently reinstated without going through any disciplinary hearing," a source said.Nosithembele was suspended in April 2014 and reinstated in August 2015. Her term in Burundi ended in December and she is now a director for Gulf states in the Middle East and Asia branch.Ciza, who is Burundian, said he was released from the DRC jail after paying a fine to prison officials. When he returned to work, South Africa's ambassador to Burundi, Oupa Monareng, initiated disciplinary action against him.Ciza was charged with "damaging the name of the Republic of South Africa by being instrumental in the smuggling out [of] a Burundi national by the name of Michelle Wege to the DRC, using fraudulent documents at the Kinshasa airport, heading for South Africa under the false name of Amina Yambayamba".Ciza said he asked that Mapisa-Nqakula, her sister and the deputy South African ambassador to the DRC attend his disciplinary hearing to explain their roles. His request was ignored. The minister told us that she would sort everything. Later I was told that Michelle will go with the minister but I must remain behind for further investigation "Instead, I was made the sacrificial lamb and fired." He was dismissed in August 2015.Ciza wrote to Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant and International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane last month asking them to investigate his "unfair dismissal".He wrote: "Unfortunately, I note with desolation that although I bear no direct responsibility in the chain of events as I simply responded to my hierarchy and acted accordingly. I am the one today who has to pay the price." A spokesman for the Labour Department, Mokgadi Pela, said on Friday that he was not aware of Ciza's letter. "We will deal with the matter as soon as the letter comes to our attention," he said. International relations spokesman Clayson Monyela said he could not comment because it was an internal issue.</img>Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula who was party to the smuggling. Image: ESA ALEXANDER Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula who was party to the smuggling. Image: ESA ALEXANDER"It is safe to say that Abdoulkarim is a former employee of the department who is now fighting to get his old job back after his service was terminated," Monyela said.Mapisa-Nqakula refused to answer 12 questions sent to her office on Thursday.Her spokeswoman, Joy Peter, said: "The minister has told me that she does not want to have anything to do with you. She did not even want to see the questions."She would also not confirm if Wege was still living with the minister.Zuma's spokesman, Bongani Ngqulunga, said the president had initiated a discussion on this issue with the minster. "The engagement between the president and minister is still ongoing," he said. DRC jail ordeal for 'scapegoat' official The embassy official fired for helping Michelle Wege travel to South Africa using a fruadulent document - allegedly on the instruction of Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula - has given a blow-by-blow account of the saga. Abdoulkarim Ciza, a Burundian who worked at the South African embassy in Bujumbura, told the Sunday Times this week that his supervisor, the minister's sister Nosithembele Mapisa, told him she was sending him to the Democratic Republic of Congo to help Wege "on the instruction of the minister of defence".He said: "She gave me $1,000 in cash and a bank card which she said I must pass to Michelle. When I arrived in the DRC, I found Michelle at a hotel in Bukavu, as I was told."</img>Michelle Wege was smuggled into South Africa on a fraudulent document. Image: FacebookMichelle Wege was smuggled into South Africa on a fraudulent document. Image: FacebookCiza said he flew with Wege to Kinshasa. "At the airport ... Michelle got a call from Mapisa-Nqakula and after a brief chat she handed me the phone and that was the first time I spoke with the minister."He said he was told to take Wege to the South African embassy in Kinshasa to get a letter allowing her to travel without a passport or a visa. "I met the deputy ambassador, Andrew Msindo Maswanganye, who gave us the letter." The Sunday Times has seen a copy of the letter, dated January 18 2014. It says: "This letter serves to certify that Ms Amina Yambayamba [the fake name given to Wege] has been permitted by the Embassy of South Africa in the DRC to travel to South Africa without a visa because the official of the Department of Home Affairs is currently out of the country. She is the guest of Minister of Defence, Honourable Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula." But despite the letter, Wege was detained at Kinshasa airport. Officials became suspicious because her papers said she was from the DRC but she could not speak any local languages. "Shortly after the arrest I received a phone call from Mapisa-Nqakula, who wanted to know why Michelle wasn't on the flight. I explained she had been arrested."Ciza said he was also detained as an accomplice. The next day they were taken to the immigration office in Kinshasa, where they were officially arrested."The minister was calling all the time to check on us. She promised to call the DRC minister of defence. She said she was trying to handle the problem."Ciza said that on their ninth day in jail, they were taken to a hotel in Kinshasa where they met Mapisa-Nqakula."The minister and Michelle were hugging. The minister told us that she would sort everything. Later I was told that Michelle will go with the minister but I must remain behind for further investigation." After that, Mapisa-Nqakula refused to take his calls. Ciza said he spent about another two weeks in jail and had to pay a $4,500 fine. When he got back to Burundi, he said Nosithembele warned him "not to say anything about what happened in the DRC or I would be fired and taken to jail."Maswanganye could not be reached for comment.mzilikazi@sundaytimes.co.za