The story began in August 1980 when Michael, a Seventh-Day Adventist pastor, and his wife, Lindy, took their two young sons and nine-week-old baby daughter, Azaria, on a camping trip to Ayers Rock. The night after their arrival, Lindy reported that Azaria had been taken from her tent by a dingo. A massive search was launched but the baby's body was never found, only the bloodstained jumpsuit she had been wearing.An inquest in 1981 accepted that Azaria had been killed by a dingo but added that her body was disposed of with human involvement.From the start, many Australians took against the Chamberlains. Lindy seemed too cold and self-contained for a grieving mother, while their religious affiliation was regarded as weird. It was claimed, moreover, that a dingo would not have been strong enough to drag away a 4.5kg baby. Rumours began to circulate that Lindy had killed her daughter as part of some bizarre religious ritual.Within months new evidence emerged that seemed to confirm public suspicions and a second inquest in 1982 charged Lindy with murder. Traces of "blood" had been found in the family car, and a bloody "handprint" was found on Azaria's jumpsuit. Years later, DNA tests showed the "blood" was a chemical sprayed during manufacture; the "handprint" was red desert dust.The prosecution claimed there was no dingo saliva on Azaria's jumpsuit. Lindy put this down to the jumpsuit being covered by the baby's jacket. But the jacket was missing, and police claimed she was lying.Lindy - heavily pregnant with her fourth child - was convicted of murder, accused of slashing her daughter's throat with nail scissors and making it look like a dingo attack.She was sentenced to life imprisonment; her husband was convicted as an accessory but released.Three years into Lindy's sentence, however, the search for a British tourist who had gone missing near Ayers Rock turned up Azaria's missing jacket in a dingo lair. Days later, Lindy was released and in 1987 a Royal Commission debunked much of the trial's forensic evidence.The turnaround shook Australians' faith in their police and judicial system, but many still questioned the dingo theory. A third inquest in 1995 left the cause of death open. In 2012, however, a fourth inquest was given a dossier of 14 serious dingo attacks since 1986 on humans, three of them fatal. The coroner finally ruled that a dingo had taken and killed Azaria.Michael Leigh Chamberlain was born on February 27 1944 in Christchurch, New Zealand, but after converting to the Seventh-Day Adventist Church in 1965 he emigrated to Australia, where he took a degree in theology. In 1969 he married Lindy Murchison.Michael worked as a minister in Tasmania . In 1977 the family moved to Queensland, where Azaria was born in June 1980.The case took a toll on the marriage and the couple divorced in 1991. The scandal also forced Michael' s resignation from his ministry.He went on to become an author and teacher and married Ingrid Bergner, who survives him with their daughter and the two sons and surviving daughter of his first marriage. 1944-2016