The prophets did not disappoint, telling their followers there would be turmoil in four Southern African countries and the death of an unnamed prominent personality.But above all, 2017 would be "your year"."Prophet" Emmanuel Makandiwa, founder of United Family International Church, said this would be "the year of the greater life". Congregants were urged to sacrifice and sow seed, costing $77, $770, $7700 or $77000 (about R1050 to R1.05-million), before midnight on New Year's Day."Prophet" Walter Magaya, founder of Prophetic Healing and Deliverance Ministries, told followers that this would be "the year of shifting levels and maintaining them".The popularity of prophets in Zimbabwe has soared over the years, fuelled by the declining economy.But while the economy has shrunk, the men of God have been living large. A boom in their followers has enabled them to venture into private business. Many have bodyguards and are driven by chauffeurs in luxury vehicles.Magaya made headlines last year for selling "anointed" cucumbers and mealies to his congregation. The mealies were sold at $10 apiece, despite the market price being 50c.Magaya has been a regular benefactor of the national soccer team and charitable causes, although a cloud hung over him after he was arrested last year on rape charges. The charges were later withdrawn.Yet for the faithful, neither the controversies nor the opulent lifestyles are enough to deter them from seeking out the prophets - even if it means parting with their hard-earned dollars."Zvangu zvaita" is the popular Shona refrain among the faithful, which loosely means "All problems will end" - presumably after being prayed for by the man of God.The influence of prophets stretches beyond ordinary people to the high echelons of power, right up to the core of President Robert Mugabe's ruling party.In November last year, State Security Minister Kembo Mohadi received a handkerchief from Shepherd Bushiri, founder and leader of the Pretoria-based Enlightened Christian Gathering Church, who claimed that Mohadi would wear a "crown" and soon would be promoted.The prophecy was widely interpreted in the context of Zanu-PF's succession battle, amid speculation that Mohadi would emerge a winner.Mugabe, who has refused to anoint a successor, scoffed at the prophecy during a recent Zanu-PF politburo meeting, saying: "Surely you do not pay attention to these prophets, learned people like you?"Japhet Moyo, secretary-general of the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions, said: "It's not in Zimbabwe alone where people are flocking to churches; it is everywhere hard hit by poverty that people think the Almighty will assist them. They believe someone will take them out of their problem. That is why we have seen industries and companies in Harare being turned into churches."The prophets' success has also been aided by public opinion that the government is out of touch, a view that gained ground late last year when Mugabe ignored economic challenges in his state of the nation address.Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa added salt to the wound when he told Zanu-PF delegates in Masvingo for the party's annual conference last month that "the economy was on the right track".Moyo said this week: "One would at least have expected policies to attract reform and in turn foreign investors. The uncertainty of 2017 is the same as that in 2016 and no one knows what will happen. Our members are not sure if they will find companies open; in fact some companies have not yet opened for the new year."The economy is in intensive care. There is no indication from the government of any radical measures to stem the collapse. Even Beijing - long touted as Harare's all-weather friend - is unwilling to extend any cash. Despite this, Mugabe is on his annual Far East holiday until the end of the month.Cash shortages persist, food prices are rising and there are some queues for fuel . Most public servants received their salaries only after Christmas. Mugabe's administration has also maintained a stony silence over bonuses for public servants.Economists warn that the bonus issue could come back to haunt the ruling party.Eddie Cross, an economist and opposition legislator, said more street protests were likely this year. "Unless we are prepared to disrupt the status quo and force change, no changes are likely and the conditions that beset us in 2016 will persist, including a shrinking economy, state revenue decline and an unsustainable national budget."With so little to look forward to, it is no wonder that so many Zimbabweans' hopes rest on prophets to bring an end to their problems.