For many of us, January means two things: some serious belt-tightening in the wake of the holidays and the grim realisation that it's a long stretch to the next bout of vacation days.Thank goodness, then, for places like Mountain Sanctuary Park, which, being both beautiful and affordable, offers the sort of mini-escape that can tide you over until the next big break. Weekend Escape: Glenburn Lodge and Spa, MuldersdriftFor about 40 years, this privately owned nature reserve near Rustenburg has done pretty much what it says on the tin: it's in the mountains (Magaliesberg); it's on over 1,000ha of protected land; and it's certainly a sanctuary for the city-weary soul - in fact, it's claimed to be one of the "quietest, most peaceful places in South Africa".After a recent weekend there, I'd agree - there's a surreal calm to the place, achieved in no small part by the no-nonsense policy. While guests choose varying levels of immersion in nature - from camping to log cabins - there is no music, no rowdiness, no littering, no pets. While day visitors are welcome, numbers are limited to 180 people at a time.For true nature enthusiasts, that means only birds; dung beetles; the occasional fellow hiker (who'll pass by with a smile and a wave); and, when the rains play along, cool dips in crystal mountain pools.All of it is focused on the main camp area, though still well spaced to maintain a sense of isolation for everyone. The log cabins have a gas stove, power, fridge, bedding, shower/bath, toilet and kitted kitchenettes. They sleep four to six and cost R570 per adult per night and R285 per child on the weekends. Lower rates midweek.The chalets have the same amenities as log cabins but sleep between two and six. Adults R530, children R260 on weekends.For those who want to ease in to the full tent experience, the cosy huts are a good choice. These sleep two adults and two kids (no bedding supplied) and offer a two-plate gas stove, kettle, bar fridge and camping space out front with plug points. No bathrooms though - you use the campers' ablution blocks.Campers can choose from a variety of large sites, each with its own braai fireplace. Adults pay R190 on powered sites and R140 with no power. Children R100.</img>The wide-open wonder of the Mountain Sanctuary Park. Image: mountain-sanctuary.co.zaThe wide-open wonder of the Mountain Sanctuary Park. Image: mountain-sanctuary.co.zaSelf-catering, but there is a little shop for essentials and a new restaurant in the works. This is expected to open in March.MSP is primarily a hiking reserve, with trails that range from 15 minutes to eight hours. There are also mountain-bike routes of 12km - described as "very technical" and you're only allowed to mount your bike at the start of the trail (push it til then, the no-noise policy refers).The heart of the camp is the enormous pool, set alongside picnic-perfect lawns, and a wooden deck with sun loungers that drops off to forever views of the valley. A dip here is the perfect reward after a long walk on the rugged lands and a great spot to watch the sunset.Call 014-534-0114; e-mail owen@mountain-sanctuary.co.za or visit mountain-sanctuary.co.za.