How often do you travel?My work requires me to travel often locally. So when I'm not flying, I road trip as often as possible. Last year, I probably spent half of my nights not sleeping at home.Your earliest memory of travelling abroad?In 2006, I was in my matric year, and our girls' choir went to compete in the Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod in Wales. It's a trip I will always remember fondly as we walked away as with the prestigious Choir of the World prize.Why SA is one of superstar Laura Mvula's favourite places What do you need for a perfect holiday?A comfy bed, lots of outdoor activities, sightseeing and good food.Favourite holiday destination?Porto in Portugal. Port tasting, good seafood, historic sights, shopping, a vibrant nightlife, Porto has it all. Majestic Caf is not to be missed.Best holiday ever?Walking the Portuguese Camino in May 2016 - from Lisbon, Portugal, to Finisterre, Spain, in 25 days and 720km. Then I did Madrid and Barcelona for a week, visiting art galleries and eating tapas. More recently, I did a four-day road trip from Cape Town to Durban, with a night in Lesotho.Most relaxing destination?Golden Gate (on the Cape Town-to-Durban road trip). We had a picnic on the roof of our mountain chalet, sipping on whiskey while watching a distant lightning show. No cellphone reception, no noise.Favourite restaurant?Foxcroft in Constantia. The former pastry chef at La Colombe, Glen Williams, has set a new standard with his laid-back restaurant, which took Newcomer of The Year at the recent Eat Out Mercedes-Benz Restaurant Awards. Favourite city?Cape Town for its value for money and the unlimited number of great things to do and experience.Most adventurous travel experience?The Camino. I enjoy the simple things when I travel, really being immersed in a culture. I'm already planning my next pilgrimage, the Kumano Kodo in Japan (the only other Unesco World Heritage-certified pilgrim route besides the Way of St James to Santiago de Compostela).Favourite hotel?I don't have a favourite but I enjoy cocktails and high tea at the Mount Nelson when I'm in Cape Town.</img>Majestic Caf in Porto, Portugal. Image: SuppliedMajestic Caf in Porto, Portugal. Image: SuppliedBest piece of travel advice?Pack what you think you'll need and then divide that by half. Buy what you need as you need it. Have an itinerary to maximise your time but be open to spontaneity.What's your one travel essential?Conditioner for my hair.Where next?Joburg, of course, for the West Side Story run. I'll be staying in Melville and I'm excited to explore this vibey part of the city. Then, I'll be doing Mozambique with some friends at the end of March. Lynelle Kenned stars in "West Side Story" on at the Mandela Theatre (Joburg Theatre) from January 24.