Here are some of the lovely places you can visit in the area:What started with eight olive trees and a dream of starting a farm, turned to reality for owners Patricia and Hedley Manicom when Hedley took voluntary retrenchment from his corporate job. What he dubs a sabbatical morphed into a new chapter in their lives: Owl s Rest.A great weekend escape for wine-loving Capetonians The valley has a Mediterranean climate, which is ideal for olives and lavender, says Hedley of their choice of location. We were also impressed at the general fertility of the area. Oil is extracted from their lavender in a shed behind their store. There are some tricks to optimising the quality and yield of oil but this is where the fun lies for me, says Hedley. This, along with their olives, are used to create boutique products such as tapenade and lavender and rose geranium cordial, sold from their farm as well as online.A detour from the usual sleek venue but all the better for it, Exdiem s wine and olive oil tastings take place in the owners lounge on their Klaasvoogds farm. After much searching, from Tulbagh to Napier, the family finally came across Vredelus, buying the farm in 2011. We fell in love with it, says family member Jana Wentzel Roodt. By 2014, they had planted 6,500 olive trees and had produced their first single-vineyard wines: a Ros , Pinot Noir and Chenin Blanc. The installation of a pizza oven led into pizza-making evenings. We love having friends and family over. It was just natural to share the fun with other guests, too, says Jana.</img>Four Cousin's stylish tasting room. Image: SuppliedFour Cousin's stylish tasting room. Image: SuppliedAn outline of the four cousins commands the entrance to the brand s new tasting room in Robertson. Tables flow out onto a deck with views over vineyards. Located at the entrance to the town, this new location for the popular Van Loveren extension merges restaurant, craft beer brewery, shop and tasting room. Pairings are unique: Jolly Jammers, Liquorice Allsorts, Melrose cheese wedges, Sweetie Pies with Four Cousin's whisky. We wanted to have fun with the products and make the tasting experience memorable, says brand manager R nsch Schwartz. A child-friendly non-alcholic option will also appease families visiting the area for a weekend away.Call 023-615-1505. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.