Budapest is a city as majestic as it is magical. So rich in history, it hides delights around every corner.I was fortunate to spend three days there recently on a Contiki tour. Our trip manager was an amazing young woman by the name of Magdi Gal.The very well travelled Gal has been working with Contiki for the past three years and is from Hungary. That said, I figured there was no one better to share some insider tips on things to do in that wonderful city. Here are her recommendations: For Europe's cheapest holidays... go east1) Try traditional flavours...Taste gulyas (a soup or stew of meat and vegetables) and hal szl (fish soup), which might not be for everyone but I love it. Marhaporkolt (traditional beef-and-onion stew), paprik s csirke (stewed chicken with lots of paprika and sour cream) and roast duck with purple cabbage are also must-tastes.We have countless traditional restaurants serving these well known dishes, but contemporary Hungarian cuisine is popping up all over Budapest with some exciting modern twists on the classics.Our street food is also worth experimenting with. Try langos (deep-fried flatbread), part of the Hungarian experience, and of course the Transylvanian favourite, Chimney Cake, or Kurtoskalacs.2) ...and don't forget dessertWe love cakes and we happen to have some stunning historical coffee houses, where you can feel like royalty and enjoy a slice of zserbo cake, dobos cake, rakoczi turos, gundel pancakes, somloi galuska (trifle) or some sour cherry strudel. Yum.If you want to go fancy, try Caf Gerbeaud or the New York Caf . They are pretty special in my opinion but you have loads of options around the city centre.3) Visit a bath houseYou have many choices depending on what you're after. Most young people prefer the biggest bath house in Europe, the Sz chenyi Baths. With different outdoor and indoor pools, it is open year round. It is so much fun.Personally, if I want to relax, my favourite bathhouse is the little-known Veli Bej Turkish Bath, a beautifully restored spa from the 16th century. It's a lot less busy, small and intimate, very affordable and only a short taxi ride from the city centre. We are proud to have lots of other similar Turkish baths.4) See the Statue of LibertyThe Liberty Statue or Freedom Statue is a monument on Gell rt Hill, which commemorates those who sacrificed their lives for the independence, freedom and prosperity of Hungary. A hike up to the statue cannot be missed. My favourite time to be up there is at dusk, with the city already lit up. You'll never forget the view of the Danube and that beautiful skyline.</img>Tourists at the entrance of Buda Castle in the Castle District, Budapest. Image: iStockTourists at the entrance of Buda Castle in the Castle District, Budapest. Image: iStock5) See the Castle DistrictTake the historical funicular (a type of cable car) up to the Castle District, one of the major attractions in the city. The journey up on the 100+ year-old funicular is an experience in itself. Similarly worthwhile is heading out on a ride on the oldest underground line on mainland Europe, called Kisfoldalatti (in Hungarian, though it's probably easier to pronounce "metro line one".) It's very cute and nostalgic.6) Make a toast to your holidayHungary has fantastic wine, which is unfortunately a little-known fact for visitors. Our wine bars range from simple and casual to super classy, where you can sample beautiful wines from across the country. And most places will have some delicious dishes/platters to match.7) Do a cruiseTake an evening cruise down the Danube and float past the historical buildings and gorgeous bridges. It's definitely a highlight of visiting Budapest.