There are certain dishes or ingredients which home cooks shy away from. They seem to be surrounded by mysteries which chefs alone can penetrate. Duck, in all its forms, is one of these items. But actually there are no great mysteries, only certain rules. Duck breast - rather than whole duck or legs - is the most likely part of the bird to end up being cooked at home, because duck breasts aren't that uncommon in supermarket and butchery fridges. Being boneless, they're very user-friendly, though of course spectacularly pricy.Peking-style roast duck platterFollow these tips to cook a duck breast to perfection: Frying is the best way to get a crispy skin with a still-pink interior (you're aiming for medium-rare, not rare). I like two breasts in the average 23cm household pan; not because there is an anatomical logic to it, but because cooking more at one time will cause the breasts to boil instead of browning. Start by rubbing the duck breasts all over with generous coarse salt. At this point, some people like to score the skin at close intervals, to release even more fat. You can do this of course, but the slices look a bit better when the skin is left whole. Place the duck breast skin side down in a cold (in other words room temperature), unoiled, non-stick or seasoned French steel pan. Bring the pan to a medium-high heat; high enough to slowly brown the skin. Check underneath from time to time. Cook the breasts for around eight minutes, by which time the skin should be really brown and crisp. If the duck seems to be fairly swimming in fat, tilt pan and spoon some off (retain this for cooking potatoes in). Don't be scared of whatever fat remains. In fact, if you don't love duck fat, perhaps it's best to skip duck breast altogether. Flip and cook the other side for around two minutes. The meat should feel firm but still springy. Take off the heat and leave to rest for around seven minutes. Do not cut before resting time is done. Slice and serve skin-side up.Tips on cooking other cuts of duckAs with most birds, the breast is the only part of the animal that benefits from short cooking. The rest of the meat needs much longer, slower heat applied to it. So, if roasting duck whole, and you need to compromise, always roast it upside down, so that the juices from the body run into the breasts and stop them from drying out. Balance with halved onions if necessary.A note on farmingAs with all animals, ducks can be well or badly raised (and I'm not talking about their manners). Try hard to buy duck that's marked free range and that's traceable. This article was originally published in The Times.