Coutinho played the last 29 minutes of his side's 1-0 defeat in the first leg of their semifinal against Southampton. His brief cameo demonstrated what Liverpool have been missing during his six-week absence with an ankle injury.The Brazilian has not started a league match since November 26, when a 2-0 victory over Sunderland returned Klopp's side to the top of the Premier League.The Merseyside club have since dropped seven points and trail leaders Chelsea by five as the strength in depth of Klopp's squad has been tested. Red-letter day in tight title chaseNow the German coach is ready to turn to the Brazilian at Old Trafford, and will decide over the next two training sessions whether captain Jordan Henderson is ready to join him.Henderson trained alongside another recent absentee, Joel Matip, at Melwood on Thursday, but both are struggling to make the game. Henderson is most likely to force his way into Klopp's plans as he tries to shrug off a heel injury. Matip is thought to be some time off a comeback.Coutinho's fitness offers some relief, with James Milner saying: "He's a top player and every team in the world would miss him."It's a credit to the boys the amount of goals we have been scoring without him, but it's great to see him back. The more minutes he gets, the more comfortable he'll get again. It's not easy when you've been out that long, still thinking about the injury, so it was positive for him to get some minutes. The more he plays, the more influential he will be for us again." Though the Southampton defeat was the worst Liverpool display of the season, they have enjoyed enough notable victories recently - not least against Manchester City - to retain their title aspirations ahead of meeting Jos Mourinho's side.However, Liverpool and United meet in different circumstances to their Anfield encounter in October.The question heading into what was a dour stalemate was how United would stop Klopp's swaggering side. Now Klopp will be assessing how to get that swagger back.