It's a secret well kept by his close friends: when he's not sorting the talented from the terrible, Abrahams dons his apron on Sundays to concoct a spread of decadent treats.But fellow Idols South Africa judge Unathi Msengana let the cat out of the bag when she raved on social media about a blueberry pie he had baked."I'm speechless! The best I've ever had!" Msengana posted on Instagram, with a picture of Abrahams serving.Who bakes SA's most scrumptious cheese-and-bacon quiche?The chef admits all, but says he steers clear of elaborate cakes."I'm not really into baking cakes, though I might do it once in a blue moon. I'm currently perfecting dough recipes from Elaine Greenstein's A Jewish Baker's Pastry Secrets."He swears by his chocolate brownies, which he reveals are his "easiest and best bake - haven't failed yet".But Abrahams concedes he's had a flop or two."I made a baked cheesecake infused with orange liqueur with Bar-One bits. Darn thing just wouldn't set - ended up like cheesecake jelly."It took him at least three attempts before he perfected it.Abrahams swears by the Loveless Cafe cookbook compiled by his baking idol, American author, food stylist and pastry chef Alisa Huntsman."I usually end up baking things that you won't easily find in South Africa. We're not really a pie nation, so I've worked on a couple of classic Southern recipes [from the US]."It's difficult for him to pin down his favourite recipe."Mm. That's a tricky one. I go through phases." He makes the best tarts. I just love his milktart. I'm really shocked by his skills. In fact, he could open a restaurant The latest? Doughnuts."I've just bought a book on doughnuts from Murdoch Books: that's my next challenge," he says.Apart from recipe books, Abrahams also honed his skills by watching cooking channels on TV."It's much easier than following a recipe book."One who constantly challenges himself, Abrahams relishes tackling recipes that are not found in local eateries. Stars toast to glamour at Sun Met"I decided to bake things that I couldn't find at local restaurants. If I know there's a restaurant that does an amazing version of a dessert - past is de nata, for example - I won't attempt it."So when the mood takes him, Abrahams whips out his baking utensils and ingredients, usually on a Sunday.His baking may be under wraps, but his love for Elvis is an open secret. When his pies are done and dusted, he turns on a bit of Love Me Tender."I do listen to a bit of music, but only once the ingredients are mixed and the goods are in the oven."Choreographer and Idols judge Somizi Mhlongo loves Abrahams' tarts."He makes the best tarts. I just love his milktart. I'm really shocked by his skills. In fact, he could open a restaurant."In keeping with Idols practice, Somizi says, Abrahams' skills would take him "straight to theatre week". Season 13 of 'Idols SA' will be broadcast on Mzansi Magic.