The e-mails, which have been seen by the Sunday Times, show that O'Sullivan drafted two statements for potential witnesses against Phahlane in November last year. This is despite O'Sullivan not being in the employ of the South African Police Service.The statements are in relation to the investigation by the police watchdog, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid), into allegations of corruption and defeating the ends of justice. The allegations were made in a complaint O'Sullivan lodged against Phahlane last year. Police promotion bonanza for MK vets angers cops left out in the coldIn the complaint, O'Sullivan said Phahlane could not account for the R4.7-million he claimed the acting commissioner used to build his home in Sable Hills, Pretoria. The corruption allegations also relate to the purchase of an R80,000 sound system by Phahlane.In one e-mail O'Sullivan sent to Sable Hills Estate manager Chris Jooste on November 17, on which he copied Ipid investigator Mandla Mahlangu, he attached a draft sworn statement for the manager and his secretary."When both statements are completed, please resolve the ??????? parts and then remove the colour highlighting. Also remove any red guidance notes, and it's good to go. Do not sign it yet. Mandla [Mahlangu], the principal investigator and Team Leader of the National Special Projects Team, will drop by in the early afternoon tomorrow," said O'Sullivan.Mahlangu would take the sworn statement, he said."I repeat that it would be an offence to advise any party in respect of the contents hereof and the above notes. I know you're on the right side of the fence, but the other fellow is not and has probably gotten himself in a whole heap of trouble," said O'Sullivan.The following day, November 18, Mahlangu issued Jooste with a notice to produce evidence, requesting a sworn statement and phone records showing that Phahlane called him on November 16. This forms part of Ipid's investigation of the charge of defeating the ends of justice.Mahlangu also asked Jooste to produce architect's drawings, plans, occupational certificate and any other document relating to Phahlane's house.This week Ipid carried out a raid at Phahlane's house.Ipid declined to answer questions on whether O'Sullivan was indeed leading its investigation and taking statements from potential witnesses.</img>The man whose complaint sparked acting police commissioners case, Paul O'Sullivan. Image: Bafana MahlanguThe man whose complaint sparked acting police commissioners case, Paul O'Sullivan. Image: Bafana Mahlangu"We are not going to comment about an ongoing investigation. Paul O'Sullivan doesn't work for Ipid so I don't know how you expect me to answer that part," said Ipid spokesman Moses Dlamini.When contacted to clarify his role in the Ipid investigation and the draft sworn statements he had sent, O'Sullivan said it was his duty to fight crime."So what? It's my duty and I will not stop until these corrupt Zuma appointees are behind bars, where they belong."I am not leading any investigations, there are more than adequately skilled people at Ipid to do that."I have agreed with Ipid not to discuss the merits of the case and am going to stick to that."I have added other charges, of intimidation, unlawful arrest and torture, as it is now clear to me that he was behind my unlawful arrest [last year] and torture, as a result of the case I opened against him," said O'Sullivan.Phahlane said that the investigation had been "discredited" by O'Sullivan's involvement in interviewing witnesses."Paul is not an employee of the state. He is a complainant. What makes him part of the investigation? It is a compromised investigation."