All over the continent there are residential areas, roads, even barber shops named after him. In 2009, addressing the parliament of Ghana, Obama, affirmed: "Africa's future is up to Africans."He gave a moving tribute at Nelson Mandela's memorial service in Soweto in 2013. He was cheered to the rafters, while our own president received boos.On one of his visits to Kenya, a giant billboard in downtown Nairobi proclaimed: "Welcome Home President Obama." His grandfather was a cook for the British in Kenya. He once told one adoring crowd in Kenya: "I'm the first Kenyan-American to be president of the United States."And during his last visit to Africa as US president he remarked: "I'll be back. The next time I'm back I may not be wearing a suit."</img>Obama and first lady Michelle at Nelson Mandela's cell on Robben Island. Image: REUTERS Obama and first lady Michelle at Nelson Mandela's cell on Robben Island. Image: REUTERS </img>Obama and Tanzanian president Jakaya Kikwete, along with their wives, get the red-carpet treatment in Dar es Salaam. Image: REUTERS Obama and Tanzanian president Jakaya Kikwete, along with their wives, get the red-carpet treatment in Dar es Salaam. Image: REUTERS </img>Fresh off the printer are images of Obama on T-shirts that went on sale in Nairobi, capital of Kenya, homeland of the president's father and grandfather. Image: REUTERS Fresh off the printer are images of Obama on T-shirts that went on sale in Nairobi, capital of Kenya, homeland of the president's father and grandfather. Image: REUTERS </img>Obama with AU Commission chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma during his visit to Addis Ababa in 2015. Image: AFP Obama with AU Commission chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma during his visit to Addis Ababa in 2015. Image: AFP </img>Obama tours Kenya's northeastern district of Wajir on the country's arid frontier with Somalia and Ethiopia, where millions were threatened with starvation in a drought. Image: AFP Obama tours Kenya's northeastern district of Wajir on the country's arid frontier with Somalia and Ethiopia, where millions were threatened with starvation in a drought. Image: AFP