Former wedding dress designer Katherine Fleur from Durban who now creates designer bikinis for fitness events created a R5,000 stone-encrusted two-piece for American professional fitness model Leah Ward at the international World Beauty Fashion and Fitness competition in Atlantic City last year.She won the best dressed title and was placed fifth among all the athletes.Ward who has been featured in the South African edition of international men s magazine Maxim said a South African friend who knows Fleur had the bikini made for her as a surprise. I was lost for words when I saw the bikini. It was one of the most beautiful things I ve seen. It will forever and always be my favourite bikini. The garment took five people two and a half days to complete. This includes the crystaller says Fleur We have someone whose only job is to apply the crystals. The final product weighed in at well over a kilo.Fleur who has been creating custom-made costumes for the body building brigade for almost 10 years loaded a video of Ward's bikini last week.Within four days it had gone viral with over almost 9,000 accessing the Facebook page and requests for quotes came in from as far away as France and Canada.WATCH: A clip showing off the custom-made R5,000 bikini worn by Leah Ward Fleur who last year created in excess of 750 custom-made bikinis for fitness events said she wasn t quite sure why the video had been such a huge hit. It might be because it is ultra-sparkly; all our bikinis glitter but this was silver and turquoise with very big stones that give an exceptional sparkle. I am surprised though the video wasn t even professionally made. Although this particular bikini got all the hits it is not her most intricate work. We made a bikini last year in gold and pearlescent fabric with lacy detail and about 5,000 tiny stones. Bikinis can range from around R900 to over R6,000 depending on the detail.Competitions have changed over the years she says and have become much more feminised . Some of the competitors want a new costume for each competition. Others use one costume for the entire season. When I started I knew nothing about it and thought it was for women who wanted to build themselves up like men. Lately new divisions have been introduced - some looking for a far more feminine shape. The girls I dress look exquisite. She makes men s posing trunks as well and offers Magic Tan Magic Glue to keep the bikinis in place and Magic Muscle Glaze that helps reflects rippling muscles. TMG Digital/The Times