If a court finds in his favour, the rights will begin defaulting back to McCartney from October 2018, in accordance with US copyright law. But for many years, the songs belonged to Michael Jackson.The story of how the King of Pop came to own most of The Beatles' back catalogue involves Australian folk music, a bowl of Smarties and one of the thorniest negotiations in pop music history. It began one evening in 1981 when McCartney invited Jackson to his London home.The pair knew each other well - in that same year they recorded Say Say Say together - and Jackson asked McCartney for advice on how best to invest his money. The Beatle proudly showed Jackson a folder of papers listing the songs he owned.After signing away the rights to several of his own songs early in his career, McCartney had started acquiring songs by other people. ''This is what I do," he told Jackson. ''I bought the Buddy Holly catalogue, a Broadway catalogue ..."SA impersonator moonwalks in Michael Jackson's footstepsInspired, Jackson began buying the rights to songs by soft rockers like Len Barry and soul group The Intruders. It was only the start. ''He wanted to be the number one publisher in the world," his business associate Karen Langford said. He tried, unsuccessfully, to buy the Motown catalogue. But a few years later, a better opportunity would arise.The Beatles had set up a company called Northern Songs to handle their rights, which was later subsumed into ATV Music Publishing. In the early 1980s, the main stakeholder in ATV was the Associated Communications Corporation (ACC). But in 1982, Robert Holmes Court - the businessman who became Australia's first billionaire - led a takeover of ACC. When he started selling off its interests, ATV was suddenly up for grabs.Jackson wanted it, and began negotiating to buy the catalogue with the help of rock money-man John Branca, who's since looked after the finances of the Rolling Stones and the Beach Boys. After Branca had made a quick phone call to Yoko Ono to confirm that she wouldn't be bidding on the rights, Jackson decided he would pay almost any price for the list.According to Zack O'Malley Greenburg's book Michael Jackson Inc., during one particularly tense negotiation the singer scribbled a note to Branca and passed it under the table: "John please let's not bargain. I don't want to lose the deal ... IT'S MY CATALOGUE."Holmes Court was a tough negotiator. After a fierce bidding war, he turned down a rival offer of $50-million for Jackson's $47.5-million - on two conditions. First, that Holmes Court would retain the rights to Penny Lane, so he could give it as a present to his 16-year-old daughter. Second, Jackson would fly out to Perth, Australia, to take part in a charity telethon for his TV station Channel 9.''We'd given McCartney first right of refusal, but he didn't want it at that time, so Jackson's people approached us and we negotiated with him," Holmes Court's business colleague Bert Reuter recalled. ''But the riding and break-point condition was that he had to come to the telethon."The personal appearance was the tipping point. Other investors matched Jackson's capital, but they couldn't match his star-power. Jackson agreed, and flew out for the show. But there was a catch: his contractual agreements meant he wasn't allowed to sing or dance. Instead, he gave a stilted interview, signed autographs and enthused about Australia.On Jackson's rider, he insisted that a glass bowl of Smarties be provided for him backstage before the broadcast.Although McCartney hadn't put in an offer on the catalogue himself, the sale of his songs to Jackson still rankled. ''I think it's dodgy to do something like that," he reportedly said after the deal went through. "To be someone's friend and then buy the rug they're standing on."Last year, the Jackson estate sold its 50% share to Sony/ATV for $950-million - an increase of almost 1500% on the singer's original investment. It seems the Smooth Criminal could also be a pretty smooth negotiator. - The Daily Telegraph This article was originally published in The Times.