Nature lovers, even if they've never been there, know that the Kalahari is home to some of the loveliest wilderness in the world.Places like the Okavango Delta, a 150,000km wetland fed by a river that never reaches the sea; Savuti; Moremi; Chobe; Deception Valley; and the Makgadikgadi Pan.I went to spend two nights each at Tuskers Bush Camp and Xobega Island Camp, which last year were added to marketing firm Sun Destinations' growing portfolio .Be the king of the jungle at this luxury camp in Botswana Tuskers lies in the heart of a 365,000ha private concession, almost bang in the middle between the Moremi Game Reserve in the west and Nxai Pan National Park in the southeast. There are no fences here, so game roams freely.The second - Xobega - lies within one of the countless fingers and lagoons that make up the Okavango Delta and is within the borders of the Moremi Reserve.A safari to these two offers the best of both desert and delta.Wildlife viewing in Botswana, however, is known for its high prices. As Brett Thomson, managing director of Sun Destinations, says: "Botswana does focus on high-end/low-volume tourism."But, he adds, that Tuskers and Xobega are "very affordable by Botswana standards".Typically, once can expect to pay upwards of $800 (over R10,800) per person per night at the high-end camps; whereas Tuskers and Xobega charge $395 (about R5,300) in high season.Both are rustic but comfortable tented camps with bucket showers. Everything else - the environment, the wildlife, the service, the food, the experience - is five-star.Additionally, it's that middle-of-nowhere vibe that makes this part of the world so special. And, of course, there's that nightly roar of the lions. No matter how many times you hear it, this deep roar that cuts through the night is a goosebump moment every time.Our first stay is at Tuskers, which we reach after a 2.5-hour road transfer from Maun.For one hour, we travel on gravel and sand through a slice of rural Botswana - dogs, chickens, donkeys, cows and small children waving you on. The land is desolate but the people look content.And then the landscape changes dramatically as we cross the fence into the protected area. This is as wild as Africa ever was.The transition from the arid lands of habitation to the ever-changing vistas of open grassland to mopane forest and huge swathes of mixed vegetation is itself a high point. And here be elephants too.Tuskers is deep in the Kalahari sand belt, far from any sign of habitation. Not long ago, this landwas a killing zone, where hunters left behind an elephant graveyard. Thankfully, Botswana has banned hunting and the concession is returning to its former self.A highlight is the Baobab Bush Dinner. At the end of an afternoon drive, with a stop for a sundowner in the bush, we arrive at an isolated location, dominated by a majestic baobab, under which the dinner table has been laid.Mesmerised by the beauty of it all, we got to know each other in this setting. Long-lasting friendships are born in such surrounds.</img>A breeding colony of herons near Xobega Island. Image: EBRAHIM JOGEE A breeding colony of herons near Xobega Island. Image: EBRAHIM JOGEE From Tuskers, it's a five-hour drive to Xobega. It sounds long but doesn't feel it. You never know what awaits you round the next bend.In the Moremi Game Reserve at the Mboma Boat Station, we took a boat ride to Xobega, brushing past papyrus and sending a wide variety of birdlife shrieking into the air.At Xobega , water, elephants and hippos dominate.Back in my tent after campfire chatter, the sound of branches breaking tears through the silence. It's too dark to see anything and I can't shine a torch for fear of spooking whatever's out there.Then a shape appears, right outside the tent. It's huge, much higher than the top of the tent. An elephant. He moves on behind the tent to continue feeding throughout the night. The next morning, the spoor is right in front of my tent. Later that morning, during a game walk, some elephants are seen heading off the island towards the mainland that is Moremi.The recipe for a good time in the wilderness is simple: rise before the sun, go on a drive or boat ride, then return to camp for a hearty brunch and unwind time - doing nothing but soaking up the stillness and solitude. Then it's off on an afternoon or early evening activity before returning to camp for a hearty supper and campfire chat.All too soon, it's time to make our way back to Maun, taking in one last game drive to Xakanaxa, where the pilot is waiting.We board a Mack Air Cessna Caravan for a 30-minute flight to Maun and back home, where the call of the wild resonates long after the sun has set on another glorious adventure. Jogee was a guest of Sun Destinations and flew to Maun courtesy of SA Airlink, which has regular flights out of Joburg and Cape Town. For more information call 021-712-5285 or visit sundestinations.co.za