Thirty-year-old Thabethe, who hails from Umlazi in KwaZulu-Natal, says 2016 was crazy, but one of the best years of my life. It was everything I hoped it would be career wise. Ayanda Thabethe: From extra to shooting starIt wasn't that long ago that she quit her management job to pursue the bright lights.The self-confessed goofball had a regular nine-to-five job as a brand manager at cosmetics company L Or al, but these days, she can be seen lighting up the screens on a number of shows, including BET-A List on DStv.We asked her to tell us more about herself:Three things people would be shocked to find out about me are... I have two degrees; I have an honours in marketing. Acting is the scariest thing that I have ever done. I always plan ahead, and when things don t go as planned I get frustrated.If I had a million rand I would probably buy my first property.My style is effortlessly elegant; looking good, without looking like you tried too hard.</img>Ayanda Thabethe once remarked in an interview that being a middle child is part of what made her want to stand out and shine. Image: Steve Tanchel / Red Hot Ops Ayanda Thabethe once remarked in an interview that being a middle child is part of what made her want to stand out and shine. Image: Steve Tanchel / Red Hot OpsWhat makes me sexy is confidence, originality, being myself. I m proud of the skin I m in; the body I m in.I joined a gym because I just felt like I wanted to maintain my weight and maintain my image as well. Being in the entertainment industry comes with that; you have to try by all means to always look good, to present the best version of yourself. And also the way you look talks about you before you can say anything about yourself.Women should always love themselves.</img>For this this shoot we used the B.E Afro wig from Bounce Essential Hair to enhance Thabethe s natural hair. A bit of extra hair, whether worn in full or as an extension, as hairstylist Saadique Ryklief did with Thabethe, is a great way to amp up a glamorous look. Image: Steve Tanchel / Red Hot Ops For this this shoot we used the B.E Afro wig from Bounce Essential Hair to enhance Thabethe s natural hair. A bit of extra hair, whether worn in full or as an extension, as hairstylist Saadique Ryklief did with Thabethe, is a great way to amp up a glamorous look. Image: Steve Tanchel / Red Hot OpsLove is feeling complete and content.My idea of the perfect man is somebody who is able to support me in my dreams, in my career path; someone who does not compete with you, but rather uplifts you, and helps you become a better version of yourself.I have a lot of future plans, but everything depends on God. He s brought me this far and he s the one who determines my future and where I go. This article was adapted from one that was originally published in the November issue of S Mag, a free lifestyle magazine distributed with the Sowetan newspaper.