It was the ultimate Ultimate Braai Master. The season five series was shot in six weeks instead of the usual nine; for the first time it was shot in summer, meaning that thanks to the light the usual 12-hour day morphed into 18-hour shoots; contestants faced challenges daily, instead of cooking every two or three days; and during the final episode they were hit by a tropical storm. "It was relentless," says a beaming Justin Bonello.Host of the series, cookbook author, filmmaker and urban farmer, Bonello is hardcore. "The biggest challenge for the teams is not the food," he says, "it's tapping in on an emotional, physical and psychological level. They never know what the day will bring, they are always on edge. As soon as they see me coming they know there is something planned."Ten teams took the 7,000km road trip, from the Drakensberg to little towns in the Free State and all the way down to the Wild Coast. The show kicked off in Cape St Francis with a series of challenges at the Gamtoos River mouth.Ultimate Braai Master comprises 10 teams, each with a braai master and a braai buddy, who compete through a series of challenges that have them cooking a variety of dishes over open flames, or coals. Each week, the weakest team faces elimination.WATCH the trailer for Ultimate Braai Master Season 5 This year former MasterChef South Africa judges Peter Goffe-Wood and Benny Masekwameng came on board.As on MasterChef, the two were the perfect team. "Pete pulls no punches. Benny is a little more gentle."Goffe-Wood, described by contestants as the man with the "stare face", came in with guns blazing. "You call this sous vide?" he roared at a quaking contestant on the first episode. "I call it boil-in-a-bag."He might have sliced and diced his way through the contestants but Goffe-Wood says he was blown away by their calibre. "I braai all the time but if the wind is blowing, I go inside and make something else. Not here. There can be a howling gale but they have to cook and find ways to protect their fires."Masekwameng says it was way more challenging than being in a kitchen. "I would never put myself in those conditions. Having to travel for hours, sleep in a tent, wake in the dark, deal with all sorts of weather and still show off your skills and produce something exceptional.""Something exceptional" included baked cheesecakes, flavoured pap, and even a three-tiered red velvet cake.Bonello says the standard on this series was exceptional but for him the mark of a good braai remains the company. "You can get away with coals that go out, lousy bits of meat and boring salads, but without good company it is not really a braai." 'Ultimate Braai Master' screens on e.tv every Sunday at 4pm with a repeat the following Saturday at 1pm.