And it's going to take a bit longer before his widow, Lauren, and creditors get their hands on his fortune.Searll's estate is entangled in a tapestry of litigation lodged by Hendrik Hough, a former director of one of his subsidiaries, Metamin, in the High Court in Cape Town.Although the value of Searll's estate, and the identities of its beneficiaries, remain under wraps, the man once dubbed "the doyen of the South African clothing industry" lived in the lap of luxury.Searll, who died of a brain tumour in 2010, reportedly splurged R16-million on a seaside manor in Plettenberg Bay in 2005. And the avid pilot kept a collection of commercial jets including a Bombardier Challenger and Lear.Searll started Seardel in Salt River, Cape Town, in 1957 soon after he qualified as a chartered accountant. It grew to employ 14,000 people, with turnover of R3.9-billion and pre-tax profits of R131.8-million.The bone of contention between Hough and Searll's estate goes back 50 years. Hough accuses Searll of "theft of corporate opportunities" to the tune of R250-million arising from his purchase of a property called Reeds House in Observatory, Cape Town, in 1967. Hough claims the property deal was supposed to benefit the company, but did not.Frustrated at Hough's lawsuits against Searll's estate, which delayed its winding up, executors asked the high court last year to declare Hough a vexatious litigant.In December, the court granted an order barring Hough from instituting further litigation against the estate. But Hough lodged an application for leave to appeal.In the judgment in December, Judge Lee Bozalek said Hough believed that the profits generated between 1967 and about 2011 from the ownership of Reeds House should have gone to Metamin."This appears to remain Hough's view notwithstanding the fact that the confidential arbitration between Seardel and the Searll estate for the same lost or stolen profits was eventually resolved by a substantial settlement in favour of Seardel ... I am persuaded that the applicants are entitled to an interdict against further objections [by] Hough."Hough's lawyer, Hennie Veldman, would not reveal Hough's comeback strategy. "I don't have instructions from my client but I can confirm that he will be appealing the judgment," he told the Sunday Times this week, adding that fighting the case had taken a heavy toll on his client."Mr Hough's estate was sequestrated in 2015. The debts were cost orders. The creditors were Seardel and the executors. [He] lost everything through this: his companies, his possessions, his self-respect. His long-term relationship with his partner was shipwrecked."Leonard Katz, the lawyer for the executors of Searll's estate, said they would oppose Hough's application, but declined to respond to further questions.The application will be heard this week.Hosken Consolidated Investments, which has a 71% stake in Seardel, sued Searll over the same property deal before his death. But the lawsuit was canned following a "confidential arbitration".nombembep@sundaytimes.co.za