Everyone is afraid of the bluebottles. This is what I learnt about KwaZulu-Natal and the nature of those who visit the biscuit-brown sand and warm-water beaches. When those deceptively pretty, shiny, blue bubble-blobs with long, stinging tails are spotted, everyone on the beach will alert you. Stay far away from the jellyfish. "Pee on it," if it does get you, is the sage advice.Ironic, that the tiny thing with a nasty sting would be a unifying factor here. We ignored the politics of beaches ... haven't they stayed wet and sandy whether they were being stormed, bloodied or flagged off for exclusion since the birth of time?Durban boasts the country's best hotel even the resident cat says so! The sprinkling of visitors to Umhlanga's main beach gathered when a young boy ran screaming from the waves, his forearm lashed by a whipping tail. Why wasn't anyone weeing on his arm? They all commiserated, including the Indian family with many mischievous young boys who, every five minutes, troubled their mother for sandwiches, KFC, then Ultramel custard, which they sweetly shared with the seller of stylish beach hats (a steal at R100 or so). The elderly fisherman with rubber socks, balanced precariously on the rocks, was concerned about the sting. As were the arguing couple whose fight took on a dramatic air, with her wind-blown hair and forlorn stare. We all sat together under the pier, in a strip of shade away from the sun, which at 10am scorches the sand so hot it tries to gild your toes through your slops as you walk. The beach was exquisite under the red-and-white Umhlanga lighthouse, protruding from its rocky post on the main beach. The best spot for kids is in the rock pools below. You will meet guests of the city's fanciest beach hotels, and local allsorts wanting to take a dip. And everyone laps it up, even those wary of the stings. PLAN YOUR TRIP WHERE TO STAY: The Holiday Inn Express, halfway down the hill from Umhlanga ridge to the CBD, is a great spot for food and fun. It's close to but out of sight of the Gateway Mall, off main roads and far enough from the boozy, noisy restaurant strip. The sea view and breeze smell like the holidays. Modern and efficient, as an express hotel should be, decorated in chic citrous colours and jacquard prints.WHY GO THERE: Decent family accommodation at good rates, great location and service. I would recommend a deep carpet cleaning, though.AND THE FOOD: A busy breakfast area with all the necessities, divine pecan pastries. For dinners, the smart Butcher Block restaurant is attached to the hotel, and it even serves formidable local fish.WHAT TO DO: We visited the Oyster Box Hotel straight off the beach for G&amp;Ts and a wood-fired pizza lunch on the terrace, as a treat. The kids loved the complimentary sweets trolley.Evenings on the Umhlanga strip are bustling and can be rowdy, so we chose the balcony of Olive and Oil restaurant to watch the people and car show. A must-go-back-for dish was the sweet, plump prawns in a chilli cream sauce.For the hours that the sun is unforgiving, we took a leisurely drive to Durban's harbour and Wilson's Wharf, where you can do a little boat trip, but locals know better.RATES: From R1,200 per room per night, including breakfast, season dependent.CONTACT: For bookings, visit hiexpress.com