Anti-ageing SECOND SKINIn the quest for a flawless complexion, Scientists at MIT and Harvard have been busy uncovering new materials that create a "second skin" to restore natural tautness. Invisible layers of polymers act as a band aid like a second layer of skin that blurs out wrinkles.'No knife' cosmetic tweaks to remedy muffin tops, wrinkles & moreMICRO-CHANNELLINGAs skincare ingredients get savvier, so does the way in which we apply them. Enter micro-channelling technology. This creates tiny channels in the skin so that active ingredients can be delivered deeper into the dermis layers for better results.INFLAMMAGINGNow that we have pollution-fighting skincare covered, 2017 is set to the tackle ''inflammaging", which is low-level inflammation in the body that has a huge effect on the ageing process. It occurs at different levels and rates for different people, but it is thought to be the underlying reason behind collagen and elastin breakdown.EPIGENTICSBeauty is getting bespoke. Leading the way on highly advanced product personalisation is Geneu, who rather than offer a one-sized fits all approach, gather info on your lifestyle and DNA in order to create personalised serums that work for you and you only. The high-tech test takes only 30 minutes to determine how your skin will age by factoring in your genetic make-upThe ultimate face mask guide: Find the right one for your skin Beauty product ingredients TURMERICThe traditional Indian spice, known for its anti-inflammatory properties, has been bestowed with a health halo thanks to the clean-eating brigade. Now it has beauty mavens recommending it in face masks and creams to combat acne and skin flare-ups. Expect endless yellow face mask selfies to hijack your social media feeds.ASTAXANTHINCurrently identified as the most powerful antioxidant known to science, astaxanthin's superpower lies in the fact that it's able to mix with both water and fats, allowing it to be transported throughout the entire body and provide protection to every cell. Its benefits include waging war on wrinkles and age-spot size, whilst improving skin texture and moisture content.BLUE ZONE SKINCAREChanel is the latest beauty brand to harness ingredients found in ''blue zones", areas of the planet where inhabitants live longer. Ingredients include coffee, green olives and lentisk (a spice), which are all in the diets of people living in these zones. Makeup LAVENDER LUMINESCENCEFrosty, lavender-toned highlighters are set to transcend the usual washes of gold and silver on cheekbones and cupid's bows. Evolving from last year's colour-correcting craze, the creamy violet hue has more brightening prowess than other metallics and is better equipped at neutralising sallow tones and dispelling dullness.NUDE HUESRed lipstick has been knocked off the top spot when it comes to our perfect pout shade. Nude is the new go-to hue, taking its cues from fashion, where the likes of Christian Louboutin has expanded its offering of nude ensembles. - The Daily Telegraph This article was originally published in The Times.