Fearlessness was a job requirement for South Africa's first health ombudsman, which is probably why Professor Malegapuru Makgoba got the post.He has a history of challenging the powerful, becoming a household name in 1995 when, as the first black deputy vice-chancellor of the University of the Witwatersrand, he raised the hackles of what he called the university's "small. inbred elite".Ten years later he wrote an article comparing white men who resisted transformation to "baboons or bonobo apes" whose alpha status was threatened. Editorial: No one cared enough to care for Life Esidimeni patientsAs head of the Medical Research Council, he rejected the Aids denialism of then- president Thabo Mbeki and supported the roll-out of antiretroviral drugs.In June last year, at the age of 65, Makgoba was lured from retirement in Limpopo to take on the ombudsman role.Thirteen years ago, as vice-chancellor of the University of Natal, he led the merger with the University of Durban-Westville that created the University of KwaZulu-Natal.It was one of the high points of a career that has seen Makgoba at the forefront of transformation in education, of forging health policy, and of research into molecular immunology and development of an HIV vaccine.In recognition of his achievements, President Jacob Zuma awarded him the Order of Mapungubwe in 2013.So, it was almost reluctantly that he came out of retirement in Sekhukhune, where he had intended to return to his childhood duties of tending the sheep and goats and spend time with his ageing parents."[But] I was persuaded by those who thought about the challenges faced in the health system and role they want this office to play - to enhance, protect and promote people's rights and dignity within the health system," Makgoba said in an interview this week."Anyway, my father, who died late last year, said he knew I wouldn't stay long. He said if they needed me, I should go."And need him they did. His report this month into the deaths of 94 mentally ill patients in Gauteng shook the country. It was not personal. I had a task to complete, and I did it to the best of my ability He found three health executives responsible, and Qedani Mahlangu resigned as health MEC."It was not personal. I had a task to complete, and I did it to the best of my ability," said Makgoba, who personally investigated the case and interviewed the families of those who died after being consigned to the care of inept NGOs.He said some of the health officials he spoke to had wept with confessional relief, telling him of their pain at carrying out duties that led to the loss of life.Makgoba quoted Tennyson: "Theirs not to make reply/ Theirs not to reason why/ Theirs but to do and die.""When I was a youngster, I met an old man called Es'kia Mphahlele," Makgoba said, referring to one of the giants of African literature.</img>Makgoba is due to hold the post for another six years or so. Image: Masi LosiMakgoba is due to hold the post for another six years or so. Image: Masi Losi"He said: 'When you write, you must choose the right word and make sure that the word is in the right place.' I did over 30 revisions of this report. There was an indirect pressure because the nation wanted to know what the ombud had found."I wasn't eating well. I just felt like I needed to get this out."Makgoba is due to hold the post for another six years or so, setting up and staffing the office while investigating complaints."I am asking of my colleagues in the health establishment nothing out of the ordinary," he said. Makgoba could be dubbed 'the public protector of health' "Just do the basics of what we as doctors are taught to do in order to look after patients."Appointed by Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi, who created the office, Makgoba could be dubbed "the public protector of health".Indeed, former public protector Thuli Madonsela hailed his report into the Gauteng deaths in a message from the US, where she is spending a year at Harvard University."Congratulations #HealthOmbud Prof Makgoba on first ground-breaking report that we hope will restore dignity and trust. #LifeEsidemeni," she tweeted.</img>In recognition of his medical achievements, President Jacob Zuma awarded him the Order of Mapungubwe in 2013. Image: Masi Losi In recognition of his medical achievements, President Jacob Zuma awarded him the Order of Mapungubwe in 2013. Image: Masi Losi Makgoba studied medicine at Natal Medical School, where he had as peers and political mentors Steve Biko, who was president of the student representative council, and his comrade in the black consciousness movement, Barney Pityana.Makgoba completed a doctorate in human immunogenetics at Oxford University in 1983 before becoming first assistant to the president of the Royal College of Physicians. In the US, he did research into the immune system that is still cited today, 30 years later.He returned to South Africa in 1994 at the suggestion of Nelson Mandela.Cases now occupying him as ombudsman include an allegation of patient abuse, the deaths of five new-borns - allegedly from Klebsiella infection - and claims that Limpopo hospital staff allowed medical interns to perform brain surgery and that procedures were performed without anaesthetic. Timeline of events surrounding Esidimeni scandal "The investigation of the complaints is what I enjoy," Makgoba said."That is my plan, to get the best experts in the country to assist me, and to interview the complainants myself. On every case. I feel fulfilled by the number of hours spent writing and collecting evidence."Part of taking evidence is not just listening to words. Words are accompanied by emotions and reactions."Makgoba said he unwinds from the stress during his drive home to Limpopo on a Friday afternoon by listening to James Brown, Michael Jackson, Aretha Franklin, Nina Simone, "so many ... Masekela, Letta and Caiphus, Fassie, Chaka Chaka".He added: "I buy the traditional vegetables I love, and the sour milk that the farmers make, not what you buy in the shops. As soon as I open the gate, our family dogs greet me. That is how I relax and I am able to think. There is inspiration, serenity and peace you can't find in the city."The formula works - Makgoba looks less weary and drawn now than when he released the report into the Gauteng deaths."In health we must make decisions to promote and preserve life. Mahatma Gandhi said: 'You can judge a nation by the way it treats its most vulnerable citizens.' We failed that test."