Speaking for the first time after Cricket South Africa announced they would be advertising his job during the first ODI against Sri Lanka in Port Elizabeth on January 28, Domingo said there are various factors that he needs to consider should he reapply.South Africa beat Sri Lanka by 88 runs in the fifth ODI at SuperSport Park on Friday evening to earn their second successive ODI whitewash at home this season and the No1 ODI ranking.The Proteas have won 14 consecutive ODIs at home since overhauling a 2-0 deficit to beat England 3-2 at the start of last year. Proteas approach New Zealand tour with a fresher outlookIt is a record no team has managed since the West Indies won 13 straight in the different islands between 1986 and 1989."I need to think about the reapplication because there's a lot of water under the bridge."I know guys are talking about Champions Trophy and stuff but that's still six months away. Our focus is entirely on the upcoming New Zealand series. I need to weigh up where I am in my life, where I am with my family and where I am with my career and make a call closer to the time."At this stage, I'm not able to commit or not commit and I need to see what happens," Domingo said."There's never a good time, but the board has got processes they need to follow and they need to do what's in the best interests of the national team. Whatever that is, they need to make those decisions like I need to make decisions regarding selections, strategy, tactics and whatever that's in the best interest of the team." I don't always have to agree with it or love it, but it is what it is, it's out of my hands and there's nothing I can do about it."Domingo understands the shelf life of a professional coach is a limited one and added the team has enough motivation and skill to continue without him. Kiwis are the canniest side in the gameThere are challenging tours of New Zealand and England alongside the ICC Champions Trophy before his contract expires at the end of August.South Africa have never lost a test series in New Zealand and last tasted defeat in a test series in England under the late Bob Woolmer's stewardship in 1998."It's the life of the coach, the life of the cricket team and professional sports in general. If my contract can be up and Jose Mourinho's contract can be up, I'm only Russell Domingo. There have been some big coaches whose contracts have expired and they've also had to move on. That's part of life and that's part of the job," Domingo said."I don't think I need performance as any sort of motivation. It's not about me, it's about the team and not about me being motivated."It's about the players being motivated. I'm not the main player, it's the guys on the field who are and they're the ones who deserve the accolades because they do all the heavy lifting before a match or a series."