Book ahead as they are all busy at weekends. Kids love the outdoor space and freedom when coming to Cafe Roux, says co-owner Lindi Green. On weekends you will find a kids activity and a dedicated pancake stand for the little people. Cool Cape Town spots that are putting the art back into artisanal ice creamThere s a big open play area with jungle gyms all in view of the cafe tables, where the adults can sit back with a glass of wine and a luscious home-made burger, perhaps topped with melted Gorgonzola, or one of the generous salads.In-between running wild, kids munch on home-made free-range chicken strips and chips, or the kids burgers, toasted sandwiches and other favourites.A favourite for place families to get together are the outside tables at Jonkershuis beside the wide lawns where kids can run around while their parents take their time over their meal and chat. The menu has plenty of choice including Cape Malay curries and tasting platters, and kids love the burgers and the frozen slushies made with fresh fruit juice.A stroll to the pond to visit the white ducks is part of the ritual; soaking up the views and the sense of history that pervades the wine estate is guaranteed to relax you.</img>Die Damhuis in Melkbosstrand is perfect for kids with a play area of beach sand and jungle gyms. Image: SuppliedDie Damhuis in Melkbosstrand is perfect for kids with a play area of beach sand and jungle gyms. Image: SuppliedLunch at Die Damhuis in Melkbos is perfect for small kids; there s a spacious outdoor play area of beach sand complete with a lighthouse jungle gym. Courtyard tables are scattered around this so you can sit under an umbrella with sand in your toes and a view of the ocean.The menu covers everything from seafood, to steaks and pork belly. The home-made fish cakes and pickled fish are a speciality, while kids love the hake and chips and chicken nuggets. Deer Park Cafe Cafe Paradiso Millstone Farmstall and Cafe at Oude Molen Eco Village Spice Route Blue Water Cafe at Imhoff Farm This article is adapted from one originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.