It all took concrete form when King Mohammed VI of Morocco wrote to the 27th Africa Union summit in Rwanda in July last year, indicating his country's intention to return to the AU.The North African country had walked away from the then Organisation of African Unity in 1984 in protest against the organisation's recognition of Western Sahara as the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.Despite this, Morocco continued to have special status within the OAU and within the AU, which replaced it in 2002.This is a country that applied to join the European economic community but was rejected, a country that shunned the rest of the continent by refusing to host the Africa Cup of Nations football tournament two years ago, citing fears of Ebola. It has never truly seen itself as part of our African continent.What, then, informs Morocco's stunts and the voting patterns at the recent AU summit in Ethiopia, where Morocco was formally readmitted? ANC regrets Morocco's readmission to the African Union This time around there were five candidates to replace Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma as chairperson of the AU Commission: from Botswana, Kenya, Chad, Equatorial Guinea and Senegal. Chad's foreign minister, Moussa Faki Mahamat, was duly elected.It is disappointing that a majority of African leaders have agreed to the return of Morocco, thereby shunning the oppressed. A majority of these are leaders who continue to oppress their own people.It is not surprising that Chad, Sudan, Tunisia, Senegal and Equatorial Guinea see nothing wrong with the return of Morocco. They too have a long history of abusing their people.Countries like Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Algeria, Botswana, Namibia and South Africa are opposed to Morocco's readmission. They know how it feels to be oppressed in your own country.Morocco's return is an insult to the people of Western Sahara and to Africans in general.It is saddening for a people with a history of bloodshed, slavery, human rights abuse and colonialism to see a country like Morocco do as it pleases, with the endorsement of African leaders.Its readmission is that endorsement. Its readmission compromises our leaders.Morocco has no plans to back down on its oppression of the people of Western Sahara. Morocco's return to the AU is a plot to eventually push for the removal of Western Sahara from the body.African leaders are being used. They seek to silence the voice of the Sahrawi people. The readmission of Morocco is going to set the continent back.By approving it, these leaders are undoing previous efforts by member states to help the people of Western Sahara.They have strengthened the voices of those who claim African leaders are careless of the wellbeing of their people.As Chad's Faki begins his new term, the Western Sahara issue confronts him with a huge task, on top of all the other turmoil on the continent. His commitment to a better continent will be tested to the full.Siweya is the founder of Africa Unmasked, a "cognitive movement established to deliberate on current affairs", and a member of the ANC Youth League's national executive committee. She writes in her personal capacity