The two complemented each other - the DJ would contribute with an array of skills such as scratching and mixing on the decks while the rapper gave the performance more of a live element and added lyrics.The likes of Grandmaster Flash, Afrika Bambaataa and DJ Kool Herc were hip hop's first stars in the early 1970s. Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five were an ensemble made up of a DJ and five emcees. The group left a lasting legacy - they were the first hip hop group to be inducted into the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame.Glam squads, 24k gold pedis: Mshoza dishes on getting red-carpet-ready for the MetrosYet over time the growing influence of record companies relegated DJs to the background, with the spotlight on rappers and hip hop stars.Here in South Africa, DJ ReadyD from rap clique Prophets Of Da City gave his group an edge when they performed live with his remarkable DJ skills.The fact that Lutendo Kungoane (aka DJ Sliqe) had his debut album Injayam Vol.1 nominated in the best hip hop album category at this year's Metro FM awards - alongside rappers Nasty C, Kwesta, A-Reece and Anatii - speaks to the regained influence that DJs are wielding in hip hop."I would say the consistency of releasing songs from different generations by DJs like Dimplez, Milkshake, Capital, and new DJs like Citi Lyts, has brought the influence of the DJ back," says DJSliqe.One of the country's most experienced DJs, Akio Kawahito, popularly known as DJ ID, says the resurgence of the DJ began in 2012 for two reasons:''The first is the increase in celebrity and exposure of the DJ. Not only are there great income opportunities for DJs playing at clubs, but there's also a path to stardom with DJs like Speedsta, Sphe (Sphectacula), Naves and MsCosmo as role models."Secondly, the technological advances in DJing have made the skill easier and more accessible - buying a mixer and turntables or CDJs used to be an expensive undertaking," Kawaito says.The phenomena isn't unique to South Africa. In the US the likes of DJ Khaled and DJ Drama have brought the DJ back into the spotlight with their recent global chart success.DJ Sliqe became the first DJ to win a South African Music Award last year for the Do Like I Do remix. He says that validated his decision to release a full album.Durban sneaker fair snug fit with Metro FM awardsOf course, some DJs buy beats ready-made from producers and rope in rappers to make a song. But Sliqe says he always produces all the elements of his tunes."I've never bought a beat or called an artist to jump in on a track. I'm a hundred percent fully involved," he says.Kawaito, who is incidentally rapper Reason's manager, says some music fans argue that the incorporation of live music into rappers' performances has been detrimental to DJs.But he disagrees: "Most good collectives have a turntabalist for scratching and creating effects. A skilled DJ is as important as any band member. I play a lot overseas and I see how authenticity has returned to DJing."The DJ is on the ascent. But if music's biggest night - the Grammies -is anything to go by, the rapper still maintains the top spot. Last year Chance the Rapper pipped DJ Khaled to the Grammy award for best rap album for his mixtape Coloring Book. Let's see whether rappers retain their local primacy over DJs tomorrow night at the Metro FM awards. This article was originally published in The Times.