Since last year's announcement of the possibility of taxing sugary drinks the treasury has suggested that 100% fruit juices may also taxed.The sugar tax was suggested by Priceless a division of Wits School of Public Health as way to reduce the sugar South Africans consume and reduce obesity.The sugar tax debate has raged in recent months with the beverage industry issuing press releases criticising the suggestion.The Healthy Living Alliance representing those in favour of the tax argues: Sugar consumption is a major cause of obesity and increases the risk of diabetes liver and kidney damage heart disease and some cancers. Sugary drinks are particularly harmful because they are a significant source of added sugar. Sugary drinks do not leave one feeling full so consumers still need to eat in order not to feel hungry. People who consume one sugary drink a day are 30% more likely to die from a heart attack. A sugar tax is a win-win leading to lower sugar consumption for consumers and more tax for government. The World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines say people should consume no more than 10% of their total daily calorie intake in added sugar (12 teaspoons) and ideally fewer than six teaspoons of sugar a day.The industry argues: A sugar tax could lead to 60 000 job losses and particularly affect poor people running spaza shops. The industry employs 14 000 people directly. The industry denies there is a scientific consensus that sugar is worse for consumers than any other source of calories; it disputes the link between sugar and heart disease. The beverage association quotes an industry-sponsored cardiologist whose research shows sugar is not the main cause of obesity. Beverage association director Mapule Ncanywa said: Dr James Rippe an American cardiologist cites evidence that sugars are not the main contributor to obesity-related illnesses. This evidence from recent randomised controlled trials [at] the highest level of scientific standard does not support a unique link between added sugars and various adverse health effects when consumed at normal levels in a daily diet. The industry has called for a full impact assessment of the negative impacts the proposed tax will have on the economy. It has been supported in the call by the South African Institute of Race Relations. The beverage association says a normal balanced diet and exercise are what is needed to keep people healthy. The industry says sugary drinks can be part of a normal diet. The industry says taxing just sugary drinks is not enough to stop obesity and many interventions are needed. On this health experts agree.