The Gauteng department of health intends cutting the number of beds at the Life Esidimeni Hospital to 40% of available beds. 2013 The department realises that the number of chronic patients requiring full-time care is increasing and that there are few NGOs that provide such services.The department pays R323-million for the Life Esidimeni contract 1% of its annual budget of R31.5-billion.The South African Society of Psychiatrists, or Sasop, warns the department about the likely consequences of terminating the Life Esidimeni contract, predicting the negative outcomes including loss of lives. As concern mounted, ANC politician invented a standard of care that was never metHealth MEC Qedani Mahlangu announces the termination of the Life Esidimeni contract.Sasop, the South African Depression and Anxiety Group, the South African Federation for Mental Health and families engage with the department over concerns about moving the patients and ask that the process be slowed down.Families and NGOs launch a court case against the department to stop the process, but reach an agreement with the department committing to consult the parties to ensure the process is safe and in the best interests of the patients.The department announces an extension of the Life Esidimeni contract, with care for all patients ending by June 2016.Court rules in department s favour to move 54 patients with severe intellectual disability , hypersexuality and psychosis to the Takalani Home.Almost 1,400 psychiatric patients are moved out of Life Esidimeni to NGOs, state mental health facilities or their homes. Families who battle to copeChristine Nxumalo finds out about the death of her sister, Virginia Machpelah, who had been moved without her knowledge to the Precious Angels NGO. She discovered after a trip to the funeral home that eight others from the same NGO had died. Many more patients die as they are moved to NGOs.Mahlangu announces, in response to a question in parliament, that 36 former residents of Life Esidimeni have died since their move (actually, 77 were dead). Days later, Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi announces the health ombud will investigate the deaths. Police are asked to conduct inquests in all the deaths.The health ombud s report is released with scathing findings against Mahlangu and two senior officials in the department. The report finds that at least 94 patients died. Mahlangu resigns on the eve of the release of the report. Her two subordinates will face disciplinary action.