But the signal from the free Wi-Fi is so bad it is practically impossible to use for a voice conversation, let alone live video.Typically, in this scenario, the options are to use one's own mobile data at high cost, or to phone the front desk for tech support.There is a third option: bang on your neighbours' walls and ask them to disconnect their phones from the Wi-Fi.Obviously, that's not practical, but it could well be the best solution, due to the way Wi-Fi is typically set up. "When Wi-Fi first came out, it was very simple but, to make it effective in a classic hotel environment or conference centre or stadium, is very complex, because there is lots of interference, and interference is the death of Wi-Fi," says Nick Watson, vice-president for Europe, Middle East and Africa at Ruckus Wireless, a global provider of wireless systems. Banks brace for next big thing: the return of the human being"Most smartphones tend to hang on to a Wi-Fi access point for the longest period, even when it's not in use, so you need intelligence in the access point to kick off idle devices."No one wants to deal with that complexity, but if you don't have it nothing works."The consequences have been felt by every business traveller, usually without knowing the cause.The result of that in turn is general dissatisfaction with travel Wi-Fi.Ironically, that is music to the ears of people such as Watson, who have been struggling to explain the importance of network architecture and appropriate radio frequency technology. With a growing market share of Wi-Fi systems installed in hospitality establishments, Ruckus is hoping to turn around the poor image of Wi-Fi among business travellers.It has installed systems in about 500 hotels in Cape Town and Johannesburg; a large hotel can have between 500 and 1000 Wi-Fi access points.The biggest challenge is to get all points in one hotel to "mesh" with each other, ensuring signals are processed and connections managed smoothly."If you have multiple access points, they need to be sophisticated enough to mesh."Start-ups in this business take the approach of one access point in every room, but they don't necessarily mesh. Many access points are two or three steps behind current international standards." Davids of business add tech to slings, turn tables on GoliathsRuckus is also targeting another "vertical" where quality Wi-Fi is crucial, but the words "Wi-Fi" and "quality" rarely meet. "Higher education has unique requirements that are not immediately obvious," says Watson. "Any environment with a lot of on-site housing of younger people has massive on-boarding requirements."All have expectations of what they can do with the technology, and want to do what they did at home."It's the same at hotels: people arrive wanting to stream video while chatting on the phone, they expect it to work, and they don't expect to pay."People take it for granted that there is now embedded video in all things, from websites and e-mail to instant messaging. And now we're used to that, there's no going back to text-only."Wi-Fi is essential today. In the same way, high-speed Wi-Fi supporting bandwidth-intensive applications is offered today as a premium service, but will become essential soon. Very soon.Goldstuck is founder of World Wide Worx and editor-in-chief of Gadget.co.za. Follow him on Twitter @art2gee and on YouTube. He gave a talk on emerging technologies at CES 2017