Brands and global celebs go together like leopards and their spots. Now local celebs have jumped on the bandwagon and regularly flaunt their favourite labels - because, if you have decided to be in the public eye, you want to stay there, right?Expensive clothing gives an illusion of the A-list lifestyle their fans admire.Local rapper Riky Rick regularly posts his look on Instagram. He was shown on red carpets most of last year decked out in Gucci. The anatomy of Dolce & Gabbana's spectacular Alta Moda ShowThe self-proclaimed King Kotini - which means the king of cotton, a term he coined to describe someone who is well dressed - was at the Paris Men's Fashion Week recently, where he was photographed on the streets of the City of Light wearing head-to-toe Gucci. His style contribution was later posted on the New York Times's fashion Instagram page."I'm aware that I'm being watched internationally and continentally because of my style, and fashion is something I've always been interested in," he says."I pay attention to small details like the shape of collar and length of pants. I also keep up to date with international fashion trends. I'm not a typical rapper wearing only sneakers."Everything he wears he has bought himself. "I'm unapologetic about my style and I have an interest in fashion even if it's expensive".Brand specialist Jay Badza says celebrities gravitate towards luxury brands as they are a massive differentiator between them and ordinary citizens."Luxury brands are part and parcel of the life of a celebrity and our local stars have become some of the biggest consumers of these brands."Bonang Matheba, who many regard as South Africa's style icon, says she started paying attention to her looks when she was a presenter on SABC1's music show Live.Her top priority is her hair."I make an effort to look the way I do from the moment I step out of my house."She has 10 custom-made wigs. On average they cost R7,000 and the most expensive she owns is worth R15,000.</img>Riky Rick at the Paris Men's Fashion Week - dressed in Gucci from top to toe. Image: INSTAGRAM Riky Rick at the Paris Men's Fashion Week - dressed in Gucci from top to toe. Image: INSTAGRAMLike Riky Rick, she has recently posted Instagram photos of herself in Gucci.Matheba says buying her first pair of Christian Louboutin heels for R11,500 was her first taste of high-end fashion. "I've been in love with the shoe brand ever since I could afford it. I have 30 pairs of Christian Louboutin shoes, three Gucci bags and some items from Louis Vuitton. Lately I saw myself purchasing something from Dolce &amp; Gabbana."Queen B often wears local designer Gert-Johan Coetzee on the red carpet."I balance luxury brands with non-luxury so that I'm also able to influence other people with the little that they have."High fashion without the high price tag: ideas to steal from Paris Haute Couture weekShe says it's important to get the balance on social media right, given the state of our country. "Having travelled the world, I've realised that high-end brands are a big deal in our country whereas in other countries labels are just labels."Matheba says that even though local celebs post luxury items on social media, the South African entertainment industry is still too small for anyone to clinch a deal as a luxury brand ambassador."I've been approached to wear a brand to a party and keep it, and I refuse because it doesn't bring money into my bank account," she says. "The more I grow, the more I realise the importance of my brand, and if you don't see the power of Bonang Matheba then you don't deserve to work with me."Other local celebs who flaunt their favourite luxury brands on social media are Somizi Mhlongo, with his love affair with Louis Vuitton, and Cassper Nyovest with his obsession with Bentley cars.Neither wanted to comment.Badza says the brands are the winners. "Celebs are at the forefront of fashion trends and when they give a certain brand a thumbs-up, their followers automatically consider the brand."khoabaner@timesmedia.co.za