The one missing ingredient was the love of her life. Instead, she said "I do" to a stranger, a man chosen for her by a panel of experts in a social experiment for TV.Buthelezi, 25, and Ferdinand Fester, 24 - both from Johannesburg - are among three South African couples who tied the knot, after meeting for the first time at the altar, on Married at First Sight South Africa.The international reality show, which has been running for three years, boasts a 50% success rate with its pairings.IN PICTURES: Friends, family and fans gather to pay tribute to JoostThe six participants were revealed on the first episode, which aired on DStv last week.On Friday South Africa saw the couples on a very unusual first date - their wedding.The nuptials followed four months of preparation with a panel of specialists: a relationship expert, a counselling psychologist, a sex-health specialist and a financial expert.The couples have six weeks to decide whether they're going to stay together, and there's no monetary reward.Buthelezi and Fester both say marrying a stranger is not the craziest thing they've done in their lives."No, this doesn't even break the top 10 ... although it's the only crazy thing I've done where there's evidence ... and no, I'm not elaborating," Fester said.On the surface the couple have little in common. He's a hard-rock music fan, a novice strongman competitor, and loves dogs and cooking. She's a published poet and yoga fanatic who relishes learning programming code.But failed relationships and a quest to find someone to spend the rest of their lives with have brought the two together."I submitted to the show to find a life partner," said Fester. If the marriage doesn't work, I would be disappointed and possibly heartbroken. Hopefully I won't have to deal with that "My route of finding a significant other didn't work. So I used the experts to help match me with someone who has common goals, views and a similar lifestyle."Buthelezi said some people questioned her Married at First Sight foray. "One colleague asked me how in the world I could do it. She would never think someone like me would be that desperate. I reminded myself that I never had to explain myself ... I'd take a chance at happiness any day."Already there are things they like about each other. Fester is impressed by Buthelezi's love of laughter, and she has an "immense feeling of being safe".</img>Newlyweds Ferdinand Fester and Lihle Buthelezi. Image: VIVID IMAGES PHOTOGRAPHYNewlyweds Ferdinand Fester and Lihle Buthelezi. Image: VIVID IMAGES PHOTOGRAPHYThere's one important aspect they differ on: having a family.Fester does not see himself having children, "not now, not ever". But Buthelezi is keen. "I'd be honoured to be a mother and I think he would be a great father. I'm sure we would have the most beautiful children."The wedding, paid for by the production team, was held at the Midrand Conference Centre."I had a lovely wedding planner who did an amazing job," said Buthelezi. "My decor was simple, tasteful and captured me completely. My biggest obsession that day was my dress and my husband. My close family and friends attended. I had the blessing of having my father attend."Both are optimistic that their marriage will last."If the marriage doesn't work, I would be disappointed and possibly heartbroken. Hopefully I won't have to deal with that," said the bride. Fester said that if it failed, it would be the end of relationships for him.