Shaka had been out on a hunting party some 96km away. That's about the length of the Comrades Marathon plus 7km. Henry Francis Fynn, the English traveller who had managed to weasel his way into Shaka's good books, describes in detail the brisk march that ensued across rugged terrain and through dense thickets of thorn bush. On foot. In the dark.According to Fynn, they reached the Emkhindini Royal Kraal before noon, give or take 12 hours later. His horse all but collapsed in a heap of exhaustion afterwards. Not so much Shaka.Cynics like myself will always suspect a hint of hyperbole in such stories. This is because we appreciate that when memory is cast upon a glorious past, there is a general tendency for rose-tinted nostalgia to creep in. Be that as it may, alternative sources seem to verify the validity of the story. Let's just face the facts, we all suck at somethingThe longest distance that this lowly columnist has ever covered on foot was a "gruelling" 40-odd kilometre marathon from the Pavilion Shopping Mall to my house in B-section in Mpumalanga Township, Hammarsdale. In my elder brother Mazwi's fancy suede moccasins. In the rain. With a neo-perm hairdo called the S-curl ensuring a steady river of grease into my eyes.It's a long story involving a date who depleted my transport money by insisting on waffles and ice cream from Milky Lane while I was operating on a shoestring student budget. That, and the fact that ATMs don't dispense coins and I therefore couldn't withdraw the R4.97 in my account.The walk took me about seven hours. I think I slept for three straight days afterwards, until my youngest brother, Nkalipho, came to put his finger under my nose to check if I hadn't ascended into the land of the ancestors.I come from a long line of walkers. My maternal granny, Margaret, was a notoriously brisk walker. Her offspring had no option but to learn how to keep up, and as a child I always struggled to keep up with my mom whenever we invaded Hill Street in Pinetown or West Street in Durban on shopping trips.I have a vivid recollection of falling back and then running at full speed to catch up with her, grabbing her hand so that she could drag me along. As it turns out I had grabbed some random woman wearing a dress the same colour as hers. For about 10 seconds I wailed, imagining my future as a street kid, sniffing glue for all eternity on the streets of Pinetown. And then she appeared and whisked me away. 'Disgusting' does not begin to describe what I saw. I climbed on the bathroom scale and my worst fears were confirmed. A lifetime high of 91kg This is all leading up to the fact that in November 2015 I caught a glimpse of my image in a full-length mirror. "Disgusting" does not begin to describe what I saw. I climbed on the bathroom scale and my worst fears were confirmed. A lifetime high of 91kg. Consider that I stand barely 1.7m in my stilettoes, on my toes. I was hurtling down Obesity Highway at breakneck speed.It was already after 11am and temperatures were above the 30 C mark. Still, I gave my running shoes the "lean and hungry look" that Shakespeare wrote about in Julius Caesar, fished them out of the cupboard and changed into shorts and a tattered T-shirt. Then I remembered the last time I attempted to jog and how that had ended at Medicross, getting a cortisone shot in my left ankle.This is when I also remembered Father Patrick Bonner (OSB), a New Jersey native who taught me biology in high school. I remember a class he was giving about the physiology of muscles and tendons. Explaining why he prefers walking to running, he said, "You jog, jog, jog. Then you pant, pant, pant. And then you keel over and die."Social media etiquette sins you've probably committed in a WhatsApp groupSo I went for a stroll around the neighbourhood instead.Before hordes of runners descend upon me like seagulls on a sardine run, let me hasten to clarify that I'm not against running at all. In fact, sterkte to anyone who can run a marathon. I'm just pointing out that I'm too weak and ill-disciplined to sustain running as a lifestyle choice.But I can embark on a 10km stroll without collapsing. It is now 15 months and 15kgs later and I am still at it. With religious fervour.I have learnt several lessons about walking. The first is that people find the sight of someone walking for exercise while male hilarious. I have also learnt never to take my phone with me. Not only do I fear the redistribution of wealth from the poor to the poor, walking with music in my ears messes with my thoughts. And the clarity of thought I attain while walking is matched only by the clarity of thought one attains after escaping a near-fatal car accident.It occurs to me that I am in the company of famous walkers in the form of Wordsworth, Dickens , Thoreau and the great Shaka kaSenzangakhona. To emulate the latter, my next trick will be to do it through thorn bushes, sans shoes. Follow the author of this article, Ndumiso Ngcobo, on Twitter: @NdumisoNgcobo