Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Gugile Nkwinti said the party's dismal performance in August was a "necessary disruption" that had forced the ANC to come up with an urgent plan on land to appease its constituency."Any revolution requires some disruption from people," Nkwinti said."At some point when you get into power you tend to relax a bit. You need that interaction ... That is what the August 2016 election tells you. It is actually a disruption which fits well into the conception of a constitutional revolution."'Zuma ministers' want Treasury to 'share the cake'President Jacob Zuma said on Thursday that the government would use the Expropriation Bill to address land reform.He said the government was also forging ahead with a plan to encourage 50-50 partnerships between farmworkers and owners.Such moves are seen as a response to the EFF, which has positioned itself as a champion of the poor and promises to expropriate land without compensation.EFF leader Julius Malema, when he was still leader of the ANC Youth League in 2010, pushed for the same policies outlined by Zuma this week. But seven years ago Zuma opposed them.Nkwinti said that since the advent of democracy, leaders had become comfortable and the issue of land restitution had been put on the back burner."We want a constitutional revolution because reconciliation cannot be a thing if you cannot change the economy," he said. "It means you [are] placing your own reconciliation strategy at risk. People out there feel we are not getting any change."Zuma said land reform was lagging, with only about 10% of arable land in the hands of black people.Responsibility for implementing Zuma's call for the acceleration of land reform lies with Nkwinti.The minister said that while expropriation without compensation was a radical idea, it would not be wise strategy to introduce it in South Africa.What Zuma had to say about the burning issue of land in SA"What expropriation would do is lock everything in court," he said."Keep that in mind. It is a good tool. You use it when there is intransigence. When someone does not want to see, you can use that. At the same time you can lock your land in court because South Africans are very litigious."Nkwinti said the 50-50 partnership model was yielding positive results: "[It] is a Nelson Mandela type of reconciliation ... we reconcile between the workers and the farmer."Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe said that at the current pace of restitution it would take 40 years to give the land back to its rightful owners. "And surely our people do not have that 40 years," he said.Compensating people financially rather than giving them land to use productively would continue the cycle of dispossession, Radebe said.But, he added: "The government has to talk with all the claimants and tell them: 'If you want land you have to use it productively.'"