Health ombudsman Malegapuru Makgoba on Wednesday said Mahlangu "blew hot and cold in her interview" and repeatedly had to be asked to answer a question about whether moving patients so hastily was a good decision.Christine Nxumalo, a family member of one of the women who died, this week described Mahlangu as having "lied and lied" and called her actions manipulative. She assured family members as early as November 2015 she would do things in the best interests of their families.In an e-mail to a family member she said: "I want to repeat again because this is what the department is here for! Your mother and many other patients will never be thrown in the street we will do everything humanly possible to look after each and every patient who needs to be cared for [by] us!" She assured families there would be places to look after patients who were so mentally unstable they needed to be institutionalised. Many patients also had no families. Before the patient move took place, she repeatedly stated that the Old Germiston Hospital and the nurses' residence at Transvaal Memorial Hospital would be renovated to take patients as soon as the move started.BUT these properties are closed. In August 2016, before the deaths of patients were announced, she said: "The Gauteng department of health wishes to put it on record that it has not abdicated its responsibility towards patients that were moved from Life Esidimeni when the contract was terminated in June 2016."BUT 94 people died, some went missing and unidentified bodies remain in morgues. Timeline of events surrounding Esidimeni scandal She said the NGOs used for patients "are funded by the government for general upkeep of the patients and medical care which includes psychiatry and psychological treatment, procurement of medicine and other consumables".BUT the ombudsman found NGOs did not get money for three months and went bankrupt trying to feed patients. People starved to death and most NGOs did not have nurses - let alone psychiatric experts - or medical records. Many patients went without medication. Makgoba called some "concentration camps". Mahlangu lied about the numbers of NGOs involved.She told press at a conference in September 2016 that the department had been placing patients from Life Esidimeni in 144 NGOs for 10 years and only 14 of the NGOs were new.BUT the ombudsman found that 27 NGOs were used. Mahlangu assured journalists in September that NGOs to house the frail and sickly patients were chosen from a list of criteria.This list was asked for by NGOs and families from as far back as December 2015.Mahlangu said: "The criteria used to select NGOs was that they need to have water and lights, sufficient place to sleep for every patient, catering and recreational facilities, space for medication, care workers with a ratio of 1:10. In certain facilities with severe intellectual disability the ratio of care worker is far higher."Ombudsman Makgoba found that no such list of criteria ever surfaced and none was handed in as evidence. She told the ombudsman: "When taking decisions you never know how right or wrong they are." This despite repeated attempts by families, NGOs, civil society and psychiatrists to warn her that the decision to move sickly, frail people into inadequate homes was wrong. She said: "The decision to terminate the Life Esidimeni contract was not taken lightly." The ombudsman disagreed. He found it was a reckless, chaotic decision and in breach of multiple laws.She claimed the department visited the NGOs. "Prior to moving patients, the department together with patients' relatives visited the NGOs to certify that they were suitable for upkeep of mental patients."She also said: "Most of NGOs proved capable of providing in-patient care, treatment and rehabilitation for people with chronic psychiatric disorders, and severe intellectual disability. We continue to visit all facilities and NGOs to monitor the process."BUT it was found that many NGOs had inadequate safety, security, staff, space, basic facilities and at times did not have food - or knowledge of how to look after frail people. The strenuous lives of families who battle to cope She told the ombudsman she was willing to meet the families of anyone, and that an offer was made through family representatives and not taken up.The Sunday Times has correspondence in which family members beg her to attend meetings. In many cases, she sent other staff. She said the move was to save money as almost R10,000 a month was spent per patient. "It is important to note that the department cannot afford this, the budget allocation which was previously utilised on the said facility will be re-prioritised," said Mahlangu.The ombudsman concluded: "There was no evidence prior to implementation that the care outside the Life Esidimeni centres would be cheaper."She cut costs of R320 per patient per day only to hospitalise hundreds of patients in psychiatric institutions, where care is far more expensive, at between R1,390 and R1,960 a day. In September she said: "The Gauteng department of health took its decision to terminate the contract in line with Mental Health Act."BUT the ombudsman found she had breached many provisions of the act.childk@sundaytimes.co.za