This decision will affect 60 000 people living on private land that they began occupying several years ago. The land owners want the state to buy them out or compensate them. The state is reluctant. Nearly everyone agrees eviction is not an option.On Tuesday Masixole Feni photographed life in the settlement. They live here not out of choice. They live here out of desperation said advocate Irene de Vos who is representing the Marikana residents. But even in desperation there is hustle bustle and great effort to make life tolerable and dignified.</img>Marikana, named by the residents in solidarity with platinum miners in a town by the same name in North West Province, is located in Philippi East on the Cape Flats. Image: GroundUPMarikana, named by the residents in solidarity with platinum miners in a town by the same name in North West Province, is located in Philippi East on the Cape Flats. Image: GroundUP</img>Jason Williams and Dale Groep sell fruit and vegetables. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUPJason Williams and Dale Groep sell fruit and vegetables. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUP</img>Shila Jubu sells corn that she says is imported from Zimbabwe. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUPShila Jubu sells corn that she says is imported from Zimbabwe. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUP</img>Thabiso Tshepe sells fruit and vegetables at his brother s stand. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUPThabiso Tshepe sells fruit and vegetables at his brother s stand. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUP</img>Nomfuneko Sitwayi braais and sell chicken feet (with help from young Ndalo Sitwayi). Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUPNomfuneko Sitwayi braais and sell chicken feet (with help from young Ndalo Sitwayi). Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUP</img>Sinoxolo Manyamalala, Langa Mthongana, Sakhile Gileyi, Ntsikelelo Sirata and Samkele France enjoy brandy at a friend s home. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUPSinoxolo Manyamalala, Langa Mthongana, Sakhile Gileyi, Ntsikelelo Sirata and Samkele France enjoy brandy at a friend s home. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUP</img>Luxolo Makhawuza has moved here from the Eastern Cape. He wants to do tertiary education this year. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUPLuxolo Makhawuza has moved here from the Eastern Cape. He wants to do tertiary education this year. Image: Masixole Feni, GroundUPThis article was first published by GroundUP.