Shelley Seid shares a few off-the-beaten track ideas of ways you can surprise that someone special: What: Cupboom is on online business that creates 100% handcrafted, luxurious, gorgeous cupcakes for the bath. The confectionary-inspired products include exfoliating cake soap slices, chocolate bar hand-soaps and bath and body-scrub cupcakes infused with essential oil aromas. CupBoom also offers body products such as massage candles, body massage bars, body butters and lotions.</img>Cupboom confectionary-inspired bath products include body-scrub cupcakes. Image: SuppliedCupboom confectionary-inspired bath products include body-scrub cupcakes. Image: Supplied Why: Soak up romance and cut the kilojoules at the same time. They look great, they make you feel even better; the perfect Valentine s spoil. Personally I d go for the red velvet macaroon. Drop it in the bath or on the shower floor and get ready to swoon over its heady, decadent aroma. Admin: Go to cupboom.co.zaWhat: Put together a three-course meal with your beloved, under the gentle hand of the professional chefs from Gecko s Culinary Adventures. The meal includes heart-shaped focaccia, a mezze platter, a fancy fillet (or vegetarian option) and a decadent desert.Why: Bonding over food can be very romantic, particularly if someone else is doing the dishes. Take in the awe-inspiring view from the Gecko premises of the night lights of Durban while feeding one another lemon and peppadew dolmades. And just when you thought it couldn t get any better you are given your chocolate-dipped strawberries and Amarula essence infused truffles to take home they double as chocolate body paint. Say no more. The admin: Not surprisingly the February 14 session is full but there is another planned for Saturday 18 from 6pm 9pm. R1,000 per couple, wine, beer and soft drinks are available, else BYO. And bring a camera to capture moments of culinary genius. For more information go to:geckoschool.co.zaWhat: See Notting Hill, the 1999 movie starring Julia Roberts and Hugh Grant, at the Old Mutual Open Air Cinema, Botanic Gardens. Why: It's one of the most romantic movies ever. If lying on a blanket under the stars, sipping your favourite tipple and listening to Julia saying she is just a girl standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her, doesn t warm the cockles of your heart nothing will. The admin: Adults R95 prebooked; R100 on the day. Gates open at 5.30. Movie begins at 9pm. Bring your own picnic hamper or come unencumbered and fill up onsite.WATCH the trailer for Notting Hill What: Staying home doesn t mean having to burn yourself out preparing a romantic meal. There are food angels out there who are willing to do it for you. My Chef, for example, is an online shop that delivers fresh preservative-free meals within the greater Durban area. Why: Focus on yourself, your beloved, the setting and the temperature of the bubbly. My Chef delivers the rest with appropriately named dishes like Spicy Beginnings (spiced calamari and chorizo bowl) Jus Are Amazing (butterbasted fillet steak, with cauliflower mash and veg) and Stick with Me (sticky toffee pudding). And if you don t have a date, feel free to comfort-eat for two.Admin: All dishes available in two or more portions and range from R29 to R115. Additional charge for delivery. And hurry. Orders for Valentines close at 2pm on Thursday. For more info, go to Mychef.co.za This article was originally published in The Times.