Middlesbrough had only scored three goals in their last six games and seemed to be aiming to share the points until Son Heung-Min won a very dubious penalty.Kane's penalty meant that he had scored against 23 teams in the Premier League out of 25 faced.Tottenham remain in second place, nine points behind leaders Chelsea. Chelsea trounce Arsenal Liverpool stunned by TigersAt the KCOM Stadium, Liverpool fell behind in the 44th minute when Alfred N'Diaye took advantage of goalkeeper Simon Mignolet's poor handling to bag a debut goal. Jurgen Klopp's side were finished off in the 84th minute when on-loan Everton striker Oumar Niasse raced clear to boost third-bottom Hull's survival bid. Liverpool have won only once in their last 10 games in all competitions, and will be knocked out of the top four if Manchester City avoid defeat against Swansea today.Bad day for Big Sam Sunderland stunned their former boss Sam Allardyce with an incredible first-half goal rush to demolish fellow strugglers Crystal Palace 4-0 at Selhurst Park. David Moyes' side drew first blood when Lamine Kone, signed by Palace chief Allardyce when he was in charge at Sunderland, swept home after Palace goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey dropped a 10th-minute free-kick. The Black Cats were two up in the 43rd minute through Didier Ndong's first goal for the club. Sunderland stunned their former boss Sam Allardyce with an incredible first-half goal rush to demolish fellow strugglers Crystal Palace 4-0 at Selhurst Park Jermain Defoe put the result beyond doubt with two goals in first-half stoppage-time as one furious Palace fan ran onto the pitch to confront defender Damien Delaney. Sunderland remain bottom of the table but they are now level on points with Palace, who drop to 19th place, and are just two points from safety.Lukaku gets fourRomelu Lukaku scored four times, including the joint fastest Premier League goal this season, in Everton's 6-3 victory against Bournemouth. Ronald Koeman's side were ahead after just 30 seconds at Goodison Park as Belgian forward Lukaku started his goal spree. It was the joint quick Premier League goal of the season, joining Pedro's effort for Chelsea against Manchester United. Everton doubled their advantage through James McCarthy in the 23rd minute and Lukaku notched his second six minutes later. Bournemouth's Josh King set up a tense finale as he netted in the 59th and 70th minutes. Lukaku struck again in the 83rd and 84th minutes to cap his memorable afternoon before Harry Arter's 90th-minute reply and Ross Barkley's sixth for Everton. Alli double for Tottenham ends Chelsea's winning streakHammers back on formWest Ham bounced back from their mauling against Manchester City with a 3-1 win at Southampton. Thrashed 4-0 by City on Wednesday, Slaven Bilic's team were behind again when Saints striker Manolo Gabbiadini scored on his debut in the 12th minute. But Andy Carroll equalised two minutes later and Pedro Obiang put West Ham ahead in the 44th minute before Mark Noble's 52nd-minute effort sealed the points.Clarets suffer loss No7Watford consigned 10-man Burnley to a seventh successive away league defeat with a 2-1 success at Vicarage Road. The Clarets had Jeff Hendrick sent off in the sixth minute for a lunge on Jose Holebas and Watford went ahead through Troy Deeney in the 10th minute. M'Baye Niang struck in first-half stoppage-time and Ashley Barnes' 78th-minute penalty came too late for Burnley.West Brom beat Stoke West Bromwich Albion beat Stoke 1-0 thanks to James Morrison's sixth-minute goal.