What is hygge? Aside from being a really difficult concept to explain and pronounce (hooga), it s a Danish philosophy that encourages surrounding yourself with gentle, soothing things and making everyday moments more meaningful.Think lighting a candle at every meal, taking a moment to breathe in the glorious aromas at a bakery, or enjoying an intimate dinner with close friends.In a society where we re all constantly connected to technology, fighting against the clock and depriving ourselves of everything from sugar to gluten, a hygge way of life is a tempting alternative that may just offer a key to happiness.Here are seven ways to bring this cosy concept into your home:Scented or unscented, candles create a calm, welcoming atmosphere with their gentle, flickering light. Dot them throughout the house, from the bathroom to the living room, and, most importantly light them as often as possible. 10 stylish buys to spruce up your workspace on a budgetTexture is a big trend for 2017, and if you opt for comforting materials such as knits and wools, you ll create a hygge zone that is bang on trend. Think large knit ottomans, velvet scatters or sheepskin throws. You don t need to revamp your home to turn it into a hygge haven. Remember that hygge is all about giving meaning to the small moments, and it s not something that can be bought it s something you feel. So, when you have your morning coffee, use a mug you really love, sit in a favourite spot, and ditch the cell phone. Time for a bath? Light a candle, use that special bath oil you ve been saving, and devote an extra few minutes to this me-time ritual. Hygge is about making your life more meaningful, not about complicating it. If you re having friends over for dinner, it s about spending time with people you love. So don t stress yourself out preparing a seven-course tasting menu complete with wine pairings. Rather focus on creating a warm and welcoming atmosphere that will have your friends lingering for hours. How to decorate with Pantone s Colour of the Year 2017Treat yourself to comfortable, luxurious loungewear that will transform chilling at home into the ultimate indulgence. Whether it s silk slippers, cosy socks, a comfy onesie, or stylish pyjamas, make sure you have something waiting at home that you ll be excited to slip into after a long day at the office.Nature is inherently calming and restorative, which is why it s the perfect tool to arm yourself with then you hygge up your home. Surround yourself with flowers and plants, or if you re not up for looking after greenery, incorporate natural materials such as wood, leather and stone into your living space. Forget mass-produced consumer items, and rather fill your home with meaningful items. Whether it s a blanket bought on your travels, a desk that belonged to your grandmother, or a photo frame given to you by your best friend, if you re surrounded by items with meaning, you re sure to feel fulfilled, content, and generally hygged up! 