Almost two and a half months have passed since the curtain dropped on the Springboks' most disastrous year yet, but still no clarity exists over the coach's position.Similar prevarication delayed Coetzee's appointment last year and it ultimately manifested in the team's performances.An insider, with vast experience in the commercial machinations of rugby, told the Sunday Times the uncertainty around the position has left sponsors and potential investors cold. He said they've adopted "a wait and see" attitude. SA Rugby mum on Coetzee as Bok coach"The corporates are sitting, waiting, saying 'lets wait until June'," he said about the series against France that could determine Coetzee's future, if he survives until then."June is too late for SA Rugby because the show has to go on and they have running expenses. They need money."The silence is a big problem from a corporate point of view. People want to know what's going on. What is the message? If it is a good message with a good plan, you can sell it."But what is the message? Is the message 'we know what we are doing', 'we have the right people', 'we have sorted out the policy around the use of overseas-based players', 'we have rapped the coach over the knuckles and have a good support team around him etc.'"That uncertainty will be reflected in their commercial programme. It has been a wait and see game, pure and simple."A prominent investor and stakeholder in rugby said, however, potential investors and sponsors won't place too much emphasis on the identity of the coach."Their focus will be whether what they're putting money into is a working concern. They'll ask whether the business of rugby is sound. Even if you had sponsors and investors who want to see a change of national coach, and they got their wish, what happens if the new people fail? "Running the Springbok team is an expensive exercise and clearly you need to create an environment that makes that entity viable on its own," the investor said.Besides, he said, not all the blame for the Springboks' ills last year should rest on Coetzee's shoulders. "Structural, administrative changes have already been made and we will see changes to the core of the team and management that went on the end of year tour last year."Problem is, you can't change too many things at the same time. Even if you had sponsors and investors who want to see a change of national coach, and they got their wish, what happens if the new people fail? What's Plan B?," the investor cautioned. Much to do for South African rugby in 2017He said, however, significant changes have to be made, especially after Adriaan Strauss stepped down as captain. It gives SA Rugby the opportunity to alter course. "SA Rugby will appoint a new captain and they are interrogating their options regarding the use of overseas-based players. They need to decide on a policy."Some changes will also have to occur within the coaching structure. Clearly there was some inexperience that cost the team last season," said the investor.The industry insider was optimistic about the Springboks' prospects and pointed to the Lions as an example of a "down and out" team that has turned their fortunes around. "Nobody wanted to be associated with them. Look at them now, they have nothing more to sell. Just this week they sold the last space on their jersey."They gave hope, they started to win, they have good values and they're well run. It can be the same with the Springboks."Potential sponsors tell me they hear SA Rugby's president has made some good decisions. But what about the coach?"Whatever SA Rugby decides, a lot depends on how they panel-beat that message and put it in the market. In a tough country and economy it will be tough, but with their silence they are making it even tougher for themselves."sports@timesmedia.co.za