PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Who have you turned into now? Why do none of the old rules seem to apply? Interesting. How about treating this week as a holiday from yourself? You have permission to create a new you, adding or subtracting any ingredients you like until you have the personality you'd like to have living in your house. And your head. The planets are happy to push in any direction you choose.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Prepare for fascinating surprises on the financial and social fronts. For a start, you'll be bumping into prospective lovers of the "too good to be true" variety. If you're available, enjoy the fireworks until the fire fizzles out. After that, try to let things take their natural course. No one here has a train to catch so there's plenty of time to play. Use the cosmic energies to explore investment options.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)Sizzling hot property, are you? Good for you. Don't you dare back down. For once, someone aside from yourself is willing to admit your worth and even fight for your success. Which doesn't mean "prima donna" is your pose for the week. The planets are demanding complete honesty and a willingness to explore. Today's solar eclipse kicks the process into gear. Pick a direction.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)The planets are messing with your head, creating peculiar detours and diverting your plans. Don't worry. The universe is testing you, wondering about the extent of your creative juices under pressure. Try to think of this as a game. That way you might even enjoy yourself. Either way, don't sign any new contracts until well into next month. For now, give yourself free rein. Adventure is guaranteed.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Today's solar eclipse is shaking your foundations. As of now, inhibitions are out. Creative expression is in. Whatever it takes to find your personal genius, is whatever it takes. If money's needed - ask. If you've been investing - collect. If neither, look to friends and lovers. They're all keen to share. Remember, it's just as wonderful to receive as it is to give. Start breaking the rules.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Love is not so much about what you say, as what you do. You are finally discovering this, and slowly the pretty speeches are developing a hollow echo. Your test for the week: keep every promise and refrain from making any you have no hope of keeping. Arrive on time and stick to the plan. This is love in action. Your relationships are changing. Today's eclipse will send a few tips.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)How about joining forces with a few people whose talents complement your own? Better check how many chiefs are on the team; there could be some power struggles unless you're vigilant. Make sure all details are clear before signing any contracts, and preferably not till late next month. Concentrate on success. It's there for the taking. Start every day with a smile and the expectation of a miracle.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)It's the unspoken power of forbidden fantasy that consumes your week. Looked at logically, your world has ceased to make sense. But in the dark recesses of your inner magic, a universe of possibilities is opening up. Somehow, amid the madness, you feel the force of change moving into your life. Stay with your instincts. They know exactly what they're doing. Let that smile grow.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Obsessiveness is one of your madnesses and it's with you in truckloads. Try not to confuse love with sex. Your hormones are jumping - not a reason to propose marriage or charge off into the sunset with someone you met last night. Even so, you're in for some passionate nights. If that's not your thing, try redirecting the energy into something creative. The key is to start trusting yourself.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)The winds are changing and an important goal needs to be scored before they do. This one is too good to waste. So put down your pride and call in the reserves. Your partners (personal or business) will help. Your determination to stick to your principles could make you more unpopular than you anticipated. Make sure "principle" is not another word for "ego". Then go at your own pace.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)There's money out there - yours if you find the courage to claim it. Resist the temptation to get into legal wrangles. Just add up what is rightfully yours, take it and leave. Someone is coming into your life; just the one you were looking for. Remember how wonderful it felt to trust someone? It's time to try it again and time to change your life. All you need is a little courage and the belief that you're worthy.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)It's all systems go. With your sights on career and money, a lucrative new source is making itself known. Remember to finish what you're doing first - and wait for firm offers. In writing. And pay no attention to the grumps who tell you the market's gone to pot. Depending who you talk to, that's nearly always the case. Besides, intuition is your strongest weapon now. Let it show itself.