27Pinkx Beauty Bar in Centurion, Gauteng, has become THE place to go for celebrities who want to look flawless for an important event.This includes Nomasonto Maswanganyi aka Mshoza, who bagged a Metro FM Award nomination for her album Abantu Bam in the Best Kwaito category.While Mshoza enjoyed complimentary pamper treatments to the tune of R15,000 including a mani, full-body massage, Intraceuticals Oxygen facial, 24k gold leaf Champagne Pedicure and laser hair removal we asked her to dish on what she'll be doing to get camera-ready for Saturday's glitzy awards ceremony.Here's what Mshoza's R15k Metro makeover got herDo you start any crazy diets in the weeks leading up to a red carpet event?I'm not one to go on diet. I'm not too hard on myself in terms of having a six pack or slim thighs. It s good for one to train but I believe that I'm an African woman, a wife and mother there are more important things to worry about. I m not a model. You can be beautiful as a plus-size so whatever God gives me at that time in my life, I take it.Is there a special beauty ritual you follow the day before a big event?I know that I have to go to sleep in time so that I can wake up with no eye bags, drink a lot of water and exercise. So the day before I prefer resting and staying stress-free so I can look good.But trust me, if you come to my hotel room the next day, you will find my glam squad. I know people will do at-home masks etc. I prefer my prep done by professionals. They know what they're doing I prefer spending the money and knowing that I will get the results.</img>Mshoza receives an Intraceuticals Oxygen facial, which provides the face with an instant glow that only gets better and better leading up to a big occasion. Image: SuppliedMshoza receives an Intraceuticals Oxygen facial, which provides the face with an instant glow that only gets better and better leading up to a big occasion. Image: SuppliedIs there a specific look that you like for the red carpet?I don t really have a signature look. Funnily enough, my glam squad always tell me that I am too ordinary for the celebrity I am.I live a very normal life compared to what I am on stage: Mshoza is a pantsula girl who is known to be a glamorous girl at the same time.What will you be wearing for the Metro Awards?I know what I m wearing. I can t tell you much though, but its very beautiful. I think I will be changing a few times Can you share one of your beauty secrets?I don t believe in wearing makeup on a daily basis as it clogs the pores and is not good for my skin. I only put it on when I am supposed to: for the stage, shoots etc.[My beauty tips are to] drink water, stay out of the sun and always wear sunscreen.Who are your beauty icons?I always look for elegance. I look up to people like Connie Ferguson and Batsetsana Khumalo. I love a woman who is respectable.Only on stage will you find me [in] sneakers and track pants that s Mshoza. But on the red carpet, elegance is important. I m not a revealing person.How do you feel about being nominated for a Metro FM Award?I feel like I'm finally being recognised for what I do. It s bittersweet as I've been in the industry for 18 years, but if I stopped doing music now, I would say [winning an award would be] a great exit I hope I win it.There are people who [make music] for the awards, but I do this because I love it and for my people the ones that say they still want music but I do think it s time that I also start focusing on other things.