Lee Berger (Jonathan Ball Publishers)The palaeontologist tells the thrilling tale of his discovery of Homo naledi - rated one of the greatest discoveries of the 21st century - and sees off his critics in the science fraternity. What, he asks, does it mean to be human? Jay Naidoo (Penguin)Former cabinet minister and veteran activist Jay Naidoo applies his acute mind to some of the problems facing the world, including poverty and global warming. He delivers a clarion call for change. Significant action must be taken, he warns, if we want future generations to live in a world we're taking for granted. 15 gripping new books to add to your must-read listLindiwe Hani and Melinda Ferguson (Jacana Media)What a bitter price many of the children of our struggle heroes pay. In this intimate and courageously honest memoir, Lindiwe Hani remembers the brief years she spent with her beloved father and, when he was murdered, her plunge into cocaine and alcohol addiction. She charts the way back to sobriety and to her confrontation of her father's killers. Michiel Heyns (Jonathan Ball Publishers)The multi-award-winning author reaches back to the classical tale of Troilus and Criseyde and brings it bang up to date in present-day London. Vintage, witty Heyns. Lesley Smailes (Tafelberg)What was a regular gap year in the US after matric mutated into a surreal decade when Smailes was sucked into a dangerous cult. This is her story of the years on the road with the bizarre and dangerous "family" and her eventual escape.Neil Gaiman (Bloomsbury)One of the first sleeper hits of the year that shot straight to the top of the New York Times bestseller list. Master storyteller Gaiman mines the old Norse myths and dazzles with gods and giants, heroes and tricksters, great beauties and dire evil. It's like Game of Thrones on speed. Marita van der Vyver (Penguin)From one of our most beloved authors, a tale of a South African writer adrift in contemporary Paris. Willem Prins's disillusionment lifts when he meets a young South African au pair, with whom he becomes friends and with whom he will face the terror attacks of Friday 13. Warm and wise as always. Jonathan Ancer (Jacana Media)Award-winning journalist Jonathan Ancer tackles the massive - and ever-murky - figure of "superspy" Craig Williamson. "Spy" is too benign a word for the mastermind of diabolical bombs, kidnappings and assassinations. Ancer unravels a sickening life of lies. 4 debut novels well worth readingSimon Bruinders (Penguin)A moving story of broken promises and fierce determination. When carpenter Abraham de Bruin is offered land in return for fighting in World War 2 he enlists. On his return from Central Africa and Egypt to George there is, of course, no land. But Abraham will summon his strength and wits to achieve his dream. Hannah Kent (Picador)From the Iceland of Burial Rites to deeply rural 19th-century Ireland, Kent immerses us in a world of folklore and fairies. A widow is struggling to raise her mute grandson and the village is convinced he is a changeling, bringing bad luck to the valley. The widow turns to the old magic for help. 