Candice Thurston, MD of Candi &amp; Co salons that ''specialise in ethnic hair", wants to change all that - taking the hair-raising out of hair styling and offering the latest trends without the headache."We understand the woman who has been through it all: the pulling, the breaking, the burning, the schlepping," she says.Makeup bag detox: how to tell when your beauty products are past their primeThe salons in Joburg and Pretoria offer braids, curls, twists, knots, weaves, relaxers, boosters, shampoos and conditioners, consultation, education and good vibes - all without the usual strain and wear and tear that accompanies achieving these looks."We have trained ethnic hair experts to guide you through the dos and don'ts of ethnic hair services and products," says Thurston, who presented the Candi &amp; Co 2017 City Hair Trends Report last month.The report is guest-edited by actress and TV presenter Boity Thulo, who is well known for chopping and changing her hair. It features South African fashion and social media influencers sporting the hottest hair styles of the season.Fashion bloggers Lulama Wolf and ThiThi Nteta appear with extravagant long styles, as does singer LeAnne Dlamini. Actress Zenande Mfenyana, wearing her elaborate braids like a crown, appears alongside DJ Olwee. Account executive Tumi Mohale, publicist Lerato Sengadi and model Iman Mkwanazi all bring their inimitable style to the shoot. Long weaves or extensions enhance the looks. In fact, Mkwanazi wears a R30,000 custom-made weave."People are pushing back against gender and race stereotypes, and African style is finally being represented on the world's fashion pages - from the faux locks at Marc Jacobs shows to the Kardashians rocking corn rows," says Thurston.''This year, hair accessories will be inspired by traditional cultures and hair will be celebrated as an art form with interesting shapes, hybrids of textures, hair jewellery and materials."Box braids, fake hair combinations, bright colours, fabrics worn threaded through the hair, and 80cm extensions are a few of this year's trends. ''2017 is all about pushing the envelope, celebrating African power and the freedom to use hair as an expression of identity," says Thurston.</img>Fashion blogger Lulama Wolf wears a braid and faux lock combo. Image: Candi & Co Fashion blogger Lulama Wolf wears a braid and faux lock combo. Image: Candi & Co </img>Model Iman Mkwanazi wears personalised braiding. Image: Candi & Co Model Iman Mkwanazi wears personalised braiding. Image: Candi & Co </img>Actress Zenande Mfenyana in an eye-catching up style. Image: Candi & Co Actress Zenande Mfenyana in an eye-catching up style. Image: Candi & Co See candiandco.co.za for more info. This article was originally published in The Times.