I had no idea Trainspotting (the film) was going to take off the way it did. In 1996 I was filming in Nicaragua and only came back in time for the premiere. When I arrived in Heathrow I suddenly saw my face in all these magazines. It was weird. Danny [Boyle, director] was right to wait 20 years to make the sequel. You can put makeup on and grey in your hair. But you don't have that kind of life experience that he was looking for. Movie review: 'A Cure for Wellness'Begbie has become like a friend. He's followed me around for 20 years. Everywhere I go, people know the character and shout out lines. Begbie is a psychotic, but people kind of love him in a strange way.Coming back to Begbie was like putting on an old pair of shoes. I know him so well but he's 20 years older and been in prison, so a lot has changed. There's still a lot of fun about the character ... and some despair as well. That is what the film explores. It's what these guys have done in the last 20 years and where they are now.The same applies to the audience. It's more than possible that people watching T2 will be sitting there with their 20-year-old kids. So this whole generational thing is happening. It was much more emotional than I expected. It was probably even more emotional than Danny expected.For the first film, Begbie was like a lot of football hooligans at the time, a "casual". He would dress quite smartly for a football game, but didn't even bother with the match and would just smash the town up. So his look was more straight pressed trousers and mod shirts. When it came to T2 I thought, "He's been in prison for 20 years so nothing will have changed." Rachael [Fleming, the costume designer] had actually kept the very famous pink Argyle sweater. So I wear that in the film. And the original trousers!Watch the trailer for the Trainspotting sequel T2T2There's a sequence with Ewen Bremner where Begbie demands Spud read out his stories. They get to the very famous glass-throwing scene. Spud's scared because he doesn't know how he will react. But Begbie just starts to laugh saying, "Ah, I remember that." That encapsulates the kind of reminiscence and holding on to the past that the movie's about. And he gets to say "I won't leave here until I find out who did it" again. The audience will be waiting for that. They've been shouting it at me for 20 years! 'T2' opens in South African cinemas on Friday, February 24.