Looking for a kid-friendly weekend getaway? Try a casino. Not for the gambling, I should probably point out. But the recently revamped Sun City is a treasure chest of non-stop activities for families of every age.All sparkly and new following its R1-billion upgrade, Sun International's shiniest jewel offers something for all tastes and most pockets. Sure, it's a shrine of mass market commercialisation but it's also a great way to keep the whole family doing stuff they love all weekend.You can golf and then gamble, take in the nightlife after a day of wildlife viewing, or hit a sports bar after a day of water sports.A 5am summer stroll around the lake offers a beautifully tranquil way to welcome the day (at least when the monkeys aren't cavorting around you), while new additions to the nightlife are enough to keep you partying all night. Weekend Escape: Tala Private Game Reserve, PietermaritzburgWHY GO THERE? If your idea of a weekend in the bush includes an en-suite, then a vast entertainment hub in the middle of the Pilanesberg may be an option.While the young-at-heart can enjoy the fabulously kitsch Valley of the Waves as well as Grand-Prix-styled racing go-karts, boating, adventure golf, hovercrafts, 4x4 quads, an animal petting zoo, an outdoor maze and a gazillion other high-energy activities, those with more sophisticated preferences have a host of new or upgraded restaurants and nightlife to savour. WHAT IT HAS The Cabanas got a bright and breezy facelift, as did the flagship old Sun City Hotel, which houses the casino. It's now called Soho and has been repositioned as the resort's "always-on" party venue. It has a new dance venue, Encore, a "millennial" bar called Vibes and a stylish restaurant, Legends. The Sun Priv , a high-limit gambling area with a private lounge, has also been revamped.There are two new rides at the Valley of Waves water park as well as a new adventure hub, Adrenalin Extreme, which offers a range of outdoor activities.If you're a sports buff, it's also worth checking out the SA Hall of Fame, which honours some of our top sportsmen and performers. Waterworld has also been upgraded with a new raceway and mini-golf.The more upmarket Palace has a new VIP gaming experience and upgraded breakfast buffet, while at the Cascades the new Bocado Mediterranean restaurant has replaced the Santorini. WHAT IT'S LIKE In true Sun International style, Sun City is a well-oiled machine that has mastered the art of catering to the masses. It's not everyone's cuppa, but there is no way you could possibly be bored. And if/when you get tired of the bright lights and crowds, there is still that spectacular mountain scenery, the massive lake and golf course to offer respite from the commercial claustrophobia. Of course, a midweek getaway means rates are cheaper and the vibe is less frenetic. We stayed at both the Soho and the Cabanas, which offer distinctively different experiences. While Soho, with the casino, is party central, the Cabanas is more chilled and family-orientated. Weekend Escape: Robertson Small Hotel, Breede River Valley AND THE FOOD Room rates include a vast buffet breakfast which will leave you full enough to skip lunch. But if you work up an appetite at the Valley of the Waves, head into the adjacent Brew Monkey. The newly launched micro brewery-themed gastro pub offers casual pub fare and lots of booze, including gimmicky blenders filled with beer - a big hit with the 18-30-year-olds. Another newly launched eatery is the Food Factory.For dinner, check out Legends at Soho. The new musical-themed restaurant offers a great vibe complete with golden oldie music, a dancefloor, oodles of atmosphere and hearty food. The lamb shank was pricey at R220 but cooked to perfection. RATES Sun City is offering all-in-one packages at Cabanas, Soho, Cascades and The Palace for its Summerlicious campaign, on now until March 31. Rates range from R1,210 per night for a single room midweek at the Cabanas to R3,520 per night for a double room on the weekend at The Palace. The price includes various meal vouchers over and above the included breakfast. GETTING THERE Sun City is about 200km northwest of Johannesburg, a drive of about two hours. WHAT THERE IS TO SEE ON THE WAY Hartbeespoort Dam is a good stopover if you want to make an event of the journey. There are also some quirky markets near the dam that offer African curios and knick-knacks. CONTACT Central reservations: 011-780-7855; customer contact centre: 011-780-7810 or visit suninternational.com.