The views of the Caucasus Mountains must be the most beautiful I have ever seen. I knew this was going to be a holiday dreams are made of.From Batumi to Kutaisi to Mestia to the pumping pulse of the capital of Tblisi, I loved every village, town and city that I saw. Georgia may be a small country but the people have a heart twice the size - they are warm, friendly and kind.The country is not only beautiful in summer with brooks and meadows but also in winter. With amazing ski resorts and villages set in postcard-perfect settings, the snow-laden trees and pristine alpine slopes are enough to make you want to return again and again.So if you are looking for some adventure at a fraction of the price, hop into a creaky minibus and crawl along the breathtaking mountain roads, enjoying the journey as much as the destination.1) Visit the Sheraton Hotel in Batumi - even if it's just for a walk around the lobby and adjoining casino, go up to the 20th floor and take in one of the best views in the city while sipping cocktails and watching the sun set over the Black Sea.2) Take a photo - or let's say a "selfie" - at the Alphabet Tower on Batumi Boulevard. This main seaside city has an electric atmosphere. From the gambling to the modern architecture, you'd be forgiven for thinking you were in "Las Vegas by the Sea".3) Grab a bite at the "upside-down restaurant", the White House. In 2011, the then-24-year-old architect took a scale model of the American White House and turned it upside down. Yup. Inside, toilets dance on the ceiling of bathrooms . The location is great on the boulevard and looking out onto the Black Sea. Even if you only go to see the upside-down toilets, make sure you Instagram the moment.</img>The 'upside-down restaurant' is a scale model of the US White House, turned upside down. Image: Paul Ash The 'upside-down restaurant' is a scale model of the US White House, turned upside down. Image: Paul Ash 4) Eat the kilojoule-laden khachapuri, a cheesy bread of multiple varieties, and don't miss the khinkali, huge, broth-filled dumplings with meat, cheese and mushrooms.5) Take one of the new trains acquired by the Georgian Railway from Batumi to Tblisi. First Class has unlimited wifi, power points and very comfy seats. If you love train travel this route is a must as it winds through the countryside.6) Visit Ushguli in Svaneti, a high mountain region in northwestern Georgia. Ushguli, at 2100m above sea level, is the highest inhabited European village and a slice of medieval heaven. For energetic types, a 9km hike in summer takes you to a glacier. Watchtowers dot the horizon and are the centre of many heart-warming folktales around the fire.7) Get your dancing shoes on. With no fewer than 16 different styles of Georgian folk dancing, you should learn at least one. Different dances originate in different parts of Georgia.The Partsa (traditional circle dance) comes from Guria and is characterised by its fast pace, rhythm, festive mood and colour. This dance not only mesmerises the audience with its speed and grace but also creates a desire to party. The costumes merely add authenticity.</img>Georgia is a wine-lover's paradise, with over 500 varieties of grapes. Image: Paul AshGeorgia is a wine-lover's paradise, with over 500 varieties of grapes. Image: Paul Ash8) Drink local wine as often as possible. With over 500 varieties of grapes and a wine-making heritage dating back over 8,000 years (or so archaeologists suspect), Georgia is a wine-lover's paradise. Churchkhela, a sweet made of grape juice and walnuts, is also addictive.9) See the Cathedral of the Dormition, often simply called Bagrati Cathedral, which stands proudly on the high hills above Kutaisi. It is a magnificent 11th-century cathedral - its floor was laid in 1003.In between stunning views of the old city, a slow amble up the steep cobbled streets takes you back in time as you image what it must have been like when kings and queens ruled this beautiful country.10) Get on the hop-on hop-off bus in Tblisi; it's a good way to see the capital. Don't miss the Holy Trinity Cathedral, the third-tallest Eastern Orthodox Cathedral in the world, which sits on a mountain over looking the Peace Bridge. Tblisi is the heart of the country for the young, with nightlife that goes on until the early hours. PLAN YOUR TRIP HOW TO GET THERE: Turkish Airlines and Qatar Airways offer connecting flights between Johannesburg (and from Cape Town with the former) and Tbilisi. The most convenient route is with Turkish Airlines - the Qatar Airways flight goes via Baku in Azerbaijan (you don't disembark, it is just a quick stop). Currently both flights are around R10,000 return, including taxes.VISAS: South African passport holders receive a visa on arrival in Georgia, free of charge. The tourist visa is valid for almost a year.