In the wee hours of Monday morning, Hollywood's most celebrated narcissists will gather together for their annual ode to self- congratulation and marketing.Yes folks, the Oscars are upon us, which means it's time to discover which piece of emotionally pandering cinematography we need to go see next. Invariably, the controversy pot will be stirred and someone will be robbed, but a week down the line few people will really care. Which makes me wonder - just how relevant are the Oscars?According to Variety.com last year's Academy Awards hit an eight-year low with 34million viewers worldwide. Who will win an Oscar vs who should win one Viewership zenith was in 1998, when more than 55million people watched Titanic take best picture. The Emmys and MTV VMAs also saw a slump in viewership. A large part of the reason for this is that fewer people are interested in watching hours of well-dressed people giving themselves awards and looking slightly bored in the interim. Think about it this way: unless something miraculous is happening continuously you would not sit down to watch the entirety of a stranger's wedding, especially when you could just catch the highlights at your own convenience. Even though this year's Grammy awards saw an uptick in television ratings, few people had very much to say about them beyond Beyonce. Should Moonlight or Fences come away empty-handed, expect a similar furore. In fact, should one of the world's best-known bigots, Mel Gibson, win awards, liberal Twitter is likely to temporarily implode.The bigger issue with award shows like the Oscars, however, is cultural relevance. For the most part Hollywood is still run by white males old enough to have children in their late 20s. At no point has this demographic been cool. Dating as far back as Elvis and beyond no one has ever felt that middle-aged white males had their finger on the pulse of popular culture. With more and more young and diverse voices driving pop culture, the Oscars organisers are doomed to fall out of touch.Finally, the sheer predictability of the awards is beginning to wear thin. If you are Gibson, to get a nomination all you need is to create a gory movie about a reluctant hero. Movie review: Oscar-contender 'Moonlight' is lit up with rare wisdomIf you are black it needs to be some variation of a struggle- against-prejudice theme, and if you are Dev Patel then a poignant, CGI-aided film about complex emotions. Essentially, getting an Oscar nod just requires that you milk the emotions cow dry, unless you're La La Land, in which case you just need to pander to Hollywood's love affair with itself.Getting an Academy Award does a wonderful job marketing movies which, one suspects, would not make stellar box office returns. It rubber stamps the critic's opinion of himself as some high-minded man of substance when in truth he preferred Moana to Hidden Figures. The nominated movies this year are fantastic pieces of art, but let's not kid ourselves, the best picture award really belongs to Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. This article was originally published in The Times.