PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)The sun moves in today, beaming down on your life and lighting the way to a new adventure. Next week's solar eclipse is in your sign, bringing unexpected opportunities. Use this week to decide where you're going and why. If your plans are designed to please everyone but you, change them at once. Your relationships are on tilt. You need to create a different relationship with yourself. A fun one.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Mars, the warrior planet, is in your sign bringing courage, charisma, passion, creativity and sex appeal into the mix. You're suddenly impatient, rude and determined to win even if you have to squash a few people's toes en route to the prize. Careful with that. The "winner" energy is with you either way. See if you can drag a few others along for the ride. No one has to lose for you to win.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)You're thrust onto the main stage through exciting developments at work. Don't spend all that loot just yet . The taxman is breathing down your neck and you need to know exactly how much is yours. Also, take special care of your co-workers. There'll be some jealousy, and back-stabbing . Make special allowances for those who feel they've been passed over. You can afford to be generous.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)They say it's the month of love, but you're more interested in money. The planets are throwing changes at you to see which one sticks. The career is on a bewildering journey of its own. For now, go where you're led and let someone else do the controlling. Next week's eclipse will send more details. This week is about trust and acceptance. Love will sort itself out later.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Getting your own way is proving a challenge. Haul out those rusty social graces and practise. Not so difficult. Charm is your middle name, just remember to add "compromise" and "tolerance". You're wondering what's happened to all the emotions you usually rely on to flood forth. They'll be back. For now, let yourself be the thinker, the intellectual. This is your chance to be the strong one.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)That mad enthusiasm is contagious, so plan carefully who you'd like to join you or you could end up with an army of disciples. Take some of that energy to work - egos and equipment are in need of repair. But do force yourself to think before opening your mouth. Count to 30 before saying anything. Honesty is not the same thing as cruelty, even if you think it's for their own good.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Wild adventures are calling you. If education is what you're after, now's the time to get it on the run. For a change, you can trust yourself to make the right decisions about your life. Your restless mind is at its sharpest, and your instincts are standing to attention, awaiting instructions. So if you need to persuade someone to see things your way, all you have to do is open your mouth.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)You're uncomfortable about the change of pace and distressed by all the talk, meetings and ideas filling your world. But if you can stay sane through it, you'll find you've accumulated a huge amount by the time the energy moves on. Not just money, although this is becoming increasingly likely too . You'll see you've also acquired a fortune in ideas, knowledge and social connections.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)If you're looking for work, you'll find it. And if you're on the hunt for good workers, trust your instincts and you'll make a good choice. For now, there's fun to be had. Avoid the usual guilt trip and have a good time. There's plenty of work ahead, so feast now, because relaxation will be rare later on. Reflect on the kinds of changes you need in your life. And let them in, one at a time.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)It's a happy time for the love life. You are calm, generous and giving, and also surprisingly sensitive to the needs of others. You're keen to learn something new - enrol in some classes. This will be a busy year so do as much as you can before the frenzy sets in. Those of you with children will be wondering why they're so hard to handle. Just back off until next month, and then try again.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)Finances are hot now, provided you have the courage to play. If you're planning to invest or speculate, count on a little luck to win the big prizes. Watch your health this week. Your world has become temporarily unreal to you, and there's a danger of ignoring the important details - like good food, plenty of rest, minimal stress. Try to keep track of the road you're actually on.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Having a good time? Excellent. Cycles of change are more comfortable for you than almost anyone, but even you can be tossed off your perch now and then. Watch the health. If you're feeling dodgy, take a break. The message is that you're trying to master everything at once and not even you can keep that up indefinitely. For now, focus on your own needs. If you need help, ask. Like everyone else.