More than 50 new works will be presented at the festival with the predominant focus on young artists.The full programme includes a total of 13 commissioned works, 13 new works and 6 Johannesburg South African premiers.</img>'Space' by Sifiso Kweyama with Jazzart Dance Theatre. The work highlights our spiritual connection to a space we once occupied and were forcibly removed from. We long for this unrestricted space which allowd us to be free to be ourselves. Dancers - Lewellyn Afrika, Reiloe Mogoje, Shaun Oelf, Thabisa Dinga and Tracey September. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella'Space' by Sifiso Kweyama with Jazzart Dance Theatre. The work highlights our spiritual connection to a space we once occupied and were forcibly removed from. We long for this unrestricted space which allowd us to be free to be ourselves. Dancers - Lewellyn Afrika, Reiloe Mogoje, Shaun Oelf, Thabisa Dinga and Tracey September. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella</img>'Workers Chant' choreographed by Nhlanhla Mahlangu in collaboration with Siphumeze Khundayi and Liyabuya Gongo with the Song and Dance works. Dancers Siphumeze Khundayi and Liyabuya Gongo with Phuphuma Love Minus. Image: John Hogg'Workers Chant' choreographed by Nhlanhla Mahlangu in collaboration with Siphumeze Khundayi and Liyabuya Gongo with the Song and Dance works. Dancers Siphumeze Khundayi and Liyabuya Gongo with Phuphuma Love Minus. Image: John Hogg</img>'DE-APART-HATE' by Mamela Nyamza with Aphiwe Livi. The work and it's related performance depict embodied defiance, desperation, dismantling and detonation of all institutional myths that keep people apart. It uses religion to symbolize all the persuasiveness of oppressive and divisive forces that infiltrate all society. Religion works to restrict and homogenize. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella.'DE-APART-HATE' by Mamela Nyamza with Aphiwe Livi. The work and it's related performance depict embodied defiance, desperation, dismantling and detonation of all institutional myths that keep people apart. It uses religion to symbolize all the persuasiveness of oppressive and divisive forces that infiltrate all society. Religion works to restrict and homogenize. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella.</img>'A Human = A Dance' choreographed by Rachelle Brunette with Oakfields College. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella.'A Human = A Dance' choreographed by Rachelle Brunette with Oakfields College. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella.</img>'Something Black and Yellow' choreographed by Julia Burnham and performed by Lulu Mlangeni and Sinazo Bokolo. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella'Something Black and Yellow' choreographed by Julia Burnham and performed by Lulu Mlangeni and Sinazo Bokolo. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella</img>'Beautiful Ones' choreographed and performed by Kristi-Leigh Jean Gresse. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella'Beautiful Ones' choreographed and performed by Kristi-Leigh Jean Gresse. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella</img>'Good Samaritan' choreographed by Taryn Henning, Victoria Andre and Veronica Louw with St Stithians Girl's College. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella'Good Samaritan' choreographed by Taryn Henning, Victoria Andre and Veronica Louw with St Stithians Girl's College. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella</img>'Ash and Water' choreographed by Motebejane John Tsunke. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella'Ash and Water' choreographed by Motebejane John Tsunke. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella</img>'Trophee' by Rudi van der Merwe and Beatrice Graf. Produced by Skree Wolf and co-production by Festival Antigel Geneva. This outdoor performance is a reference to the submission of women(trophy wife) of nature(hunting trophy) and the other by means of war throughout history. The world is increasingly challenged to rethink humanity and the performance imagines itself to be a confrontation between opposing values and between man and nature. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella'Trophee' by Rudi van der Merwe and Beatrice Graf. Produced by Skree Wolf and co-production by Festival Antigel Geneva. This outdoor performance is a reference to the submission of women(trophy wife) of nature(hunting trophy) and the other by means of war throughout history. The world is increasingly challenged to rethink humanity and the performance imagines itself to be a confrontation between opposing values and between man and nature. Image: John Hogg/Dance Umbrella