In the first match of the one-day series, in Hamilton last Sunday, Andile Phehlukwayo, batting at No8, delivered the brave heart needed to help AB de Villiers drag South Africa over the line with a ball to spare.Three days later in Christchurch, No7 Dwaine Pretorius and No10 Phehlukwayo took the visitors closer than they should have been to victory before New Zealand scrambled a six-run win.Yesterday, in Wellington, Wayne Parnell, at No8, partnered De Villiers in a much-needed stand of 84 too soon forgotten when South Africa's juggernaut pace attack ripped through the Kiwis on a seaming pitch. Rabada ready to rock the IPLHaving totalled 271/8 with De Villiers' 85 the centrepiece, the visitors made the New Zealanders look like penguins on prozac and sent them packing for 112 in 32.2 overs to win by 159 runs.How 'bout those middle-order munchkins, Russell Domingo?"It's been a feature of our side's play over the last year that the younger players have all come in and put in performances straightaway, which says a lot about where the team is at the moment and the culture of the group," Domingo told reporters in Wellington."It's always pleasing when new players are stepping up and not relying on one or two players. It's very much a collective effort at the moment."And yet Domingo wasn't completely satisfied after yesterday's display."It was still not the perfect game by a long way," he said."There's still room for improvement but I'm really satisfied by the way the bowlers went about their business on a good wicket to bowl on. The disciplines were exceptional."South Africa were 114/1 in the 23rd over yesterday. Sixteen overs later they were 180/6 - a swing of 5/66.In Christchurch, they were steaming towards success needing 105 off 14 overs with six wickets standing. Then AB de Villiers and David Miller got themselves out a dozen balls apart and the pressure multiplied.But the unsung villain, yesterday and in Christchurch, was Quinton de Kock. It's an unfair charge considering he scored 57 and 68, but that's not going to be considered good enough for a player who did not fail to convert a half-century into three figures the first six times he went past 50 in ODIs."I suppose he would feel a little disappointed in the manner of some of his dismissals," Domingo said. "But that's how he plays. He is such an aggressive player and I by no means want to curb his instinct."He is still a baby, it's hard to believe he is only 24."Domingo also marvelled that "(Kagiso Rabada) is only 21, Andile is only 20". The kids are indeed alright. There's nothing "only" about them.