Lukaku's agent, Mino Raiola, has reiterated that the Belgian will sign a new contract.In December the representative said terms were "99.9%" agreed, prompting the question why there has been a delay. Everton are naturally eager for Lukaku to put pen to paper to make him their highest-paid player.Koeman said he does not trust the word of agents, but he had seen and heard enough from Lukaku to know the forward believes Everton are moving in the right direction. I'll never feel great again, says TigerAnd the manager was lavish in his praise of the Premier League's top scorer. Asked directly if Lukaku's finishing matched that of Van Basten, Koeman said: "Yes. He's one of the best, even comparing him to the players in my time."He is world class in his finishing. He is that good but he needs to improve in a total picture of a player - but that part of him is world class."Everton want Lukaku's contract situation resolved before rival clubs start to be encouraged to prepare a summer bid, and Koeman is awaiting developments with caution despite the public comments from Raiola."I don't believe agents. It's no issue for now. Playing on Saturday is more important," said Koeman. "I did not speak to the board about Rom. If his agent said he likes to stay and wants to sign a new deal that is important to Everton."It is really good and important for the club, for the team and for me [if he signs] because at the moment it means we can keep the best players and he has seen a future in this club. That is really positive."Normally if players see a future in the club and the team is improving and getting stronger every day it is a plus for them to stay. Everyone has their own ambition and we like to keep good players."He is top scorer in the league and playing at a high level. He is clinical and it would be difficult to find a replacement for him."It is always a good ambition of a striker to be top scorer in the league."The four goals he scored last weekend will be a real boost for the player, but sometimes you can focus too much on scoring the goals. Focus on the team, focus on the job you need to do when we don't have the ball and focus on your movements."We know if we give him the chances normally he will score the goals. That's more important than to focus on scoring goals."