As the home to Rhodes University, Grahamstown, at times, does get a lot of traffic from family and friends to students, locally known as Rhodents, from across South Africa. Many Rhodents originate from Cape Town, Johannesburg, Durban and Port Elizabeth - big cities with no shortage of activities. If you are a probable student or you are anything like my parents and will be sending a matriculant there anytime soon, you will want to know what there is to do in Grahamstown. An insider's guide to exploring BudapestAnd I am here to tell you that despite Grahamstown's rich history, there is nothing to do here - not even a movie theatre to visit. This accounts for the notorious drinking culture of the student hub. Any Rhodent, I am sure, can attest to this.But fear not - I am also here to tell you what there is to do around Grahamstown. One of Grahamstown's attractive features is that it is no more than 110km to another town - presenting the opportunity for many a day's adventure.Bathurst is just 47km away and has a wealth of quirky shops and pubs to offer. Home to the oldest continually licensed pub in the country, the Pig and Whistle, as well as the almost-famous Pineapple, Bathurst has something for everyone. If you like good food, great photo opportunities and shopping for adorable hand-made knick-knacks, you would never want to leave little old Bathurst. Well, maybe after a while - I mean it is a one-street kind of farm town.If you want a weekend or day getaway to the beach, Kenton-on-Sea and Port Alfred are not far away (just 59 and 68km respectively). Both are even smaller than Grahamstown but they do have things that Grahamstown does not - like the sea, Woolworths Food and cute pilots from 43 Air School.I speak for all students when I say that the sensation of salty air and a sea breeze for a day is a perfect break from any drama and stress on campus.If you are looking for a more historic experience and you have already visited the Albany museum in Grahamstown, you could take a short trip to Adelaide (no, not in Australia), just 100km away. Here you can find more museums and 1800s architecture to bore your children with.But if you are looking for a fun stop on the way home after dropping your baby off at university, I would recommend Addo. It is just 110km from Grahamstown and is home to Addo Elephant Park, which offers a wonderful experience enjoying the Eastern Cape landscape, relaxing game drives, marine eco tours, hiking trails, 4x4 trails and guided tours. If you can fit that all in in a day or two you deserve both a medal for being so badass and a scolding for doing it without your first-year. Addo also boasts the Daniell Cheetah Project, ziplining and the Sundays River where you can canoe and bond over some team work and toppling over. What else do you need?So when next you find yourself in G-town, whether it be as a Rhodent or as the family or friends of one, you have something to do once you've exhausted all there is to do there.ARE WE THERE YET? Grahamstown - Bathurst: 47km Grahamstown - Kenton-on-Sea: 59km Grahamstown - Adelaide: 100km Grahamstown - Port Alfred: 68km Grahamstown - Addo: 110km