He was talking specifically about why there appears to be one rule for him and another for rival managers.But unless United discover some cutting edge in attack, they will not finish in the top four this season.But if the United manager was so desperate to draw attention from the result, why had he admitted beforehand that anything less than victory over Hull would be "really bad" for United's Champions League prospects? Manchester City dazzle as bitter rivals Man United held by HullThe game had no sooner finished than reports emerged in France of United reaching a verbal agreement with Antoine Griezmann to join them in the summer.United have since denied any personal agreement with Atletico Madrid's Griezmann, but it is not something they are going to admit to. There is unspoken acceptance in football that buying clubs first seek to get a player onside before looking to strike a deal with his employer. In this case the only need for negotiation with Atletico will be if United try to acquire Griezmann for less than the 100-million ( 85-million) release clause in his contract. Otherwise, Atletico will be powerless.Only Spurs (404) have had more shots in the Premier League this season than United's 390, an average of just under 17 a match, but only Hull and Southampton have a worse shot conversion ratio than United's 8.46%. To put that into context, Liverpool have had an almost identical number of shots (388) but have a shot conversion ratio of 13.4%.It is not as if a lot of those shots are speculative, either. United have created 41 of what data collating firm Opta call "big chances", but their big chance conversion rate is so far and away the worst in the league it is alarming. United have converted fewer than 30% of those big chances, a figure that is a staggering 10.02% worse than the next most wasteful side, Southampton, who convert just 39.29% of their best openings.Burnley's big-chance conversion rate is a whopping 60% and, for all Pep Guardiola's bleating about Manchester City's profligacy, City's ratio is an impressive 59.62%.It is barely worth thinking where United would be without Zlatan Ibrahimovic this season but, when the 35-year-old Swede fails to find the net, the team invariably suffer and the need for a finisher, a predator, is becoming ever more apparent. And that is where Griezmann comes in. Until he does, though, Mourinho must find an alternative solution.Marcus Rashford's sharp edge seems to have been blunted by playing out wide. He snatched at an excellent chance against Hull that he would have buried last season.Wayne Rooney can probably be relied upon for another goal or two between now and the end of the season but there is not exactly a clamour among fans for the club's all-time leading goalscorer to resist the advances of China this summer, and a dismal 45-minute showing against Hull was not going to alter that stance. Rooney used to dictate the tempo of matches, now he seems to struggle to keep pace with too many of them. Given his talent and how heavily United invested in him, his future really should not be up for discussion And then there is Anthony Martial, who appears on a collision course with Mourinho.Mourinho had said Martial had not done enough against Wigan Athletic in the FA Cup two days earlier to keep his place against Hull.So the France forward was dropped to the substitutes' bench, failed to appear for the warm-up and was overlooked for Rooney and Mata as United searched for a goal.It is proving a taxing second season at Old Trafford for Martial. Given his talent and how heavily United invested in him, his future really should not be up for discussion.This part of the fixture list was supposed to offer United an opportunity to make up ground at the top. But they have drawn against Stoke and Hull and so what can fans expect against Leicester, Watford, Bournemouth, Southampton, Middlesbrough and West Bromwich Albion next?Eighteen points are up for grabs and with Liverpool and City both four points in front, United will probably need all 18 of them. The question is whether their attackers are up to the job?