For the first week of April, the sounds of locomotive whistles and steam engines working hard will echo off the cliffs of a towering sandstone buttress near Ficksburg in the Free State.Adding to the rumble of steel wheels and panting locomotives will be the bellows of oxen and the growl of military vehicles and classic tractors prowling the sprawling reaches of Sandstone Estates - in other times a proper working farm with thousands of hectares of maize and wheat under cultivation along the banks of the Caledon River. Wire-car Grand Prix revs up tourism in sleepy Karoo townTHE VIEWIf you climbed the buttress, you would be able to see all the way to Lesotho and the hulking blue Maluti Mountains beyond, but your attention would probably be drawn to the scene below your feet instead - whisps of smoke from steam trains picking their way across the fields, amid scurrying vehicles and people, a World War 2 Sherman tank rumbling through the mealies and even a couple of vintage aircraft touching down on a long, green strip of close-cropped meadow.THE PLACEThere are no other farms like Sandstone, not here and probably nowhere else in the world. It has its own railway - 26km of two-foot gauge track - which reaches from one side of the farm to the other.The railway becomes the focal point of the week's action when the farm opens up to show off its vast collection of historic vehicles which, along with the engines and armoured cars, include classic tractors, old buses, venerable lorries saved from platteland scrapyards, and ox-wagons pulled by the farm's own teams of trained Afrikander oxen.THE OCCASIONThe event - Stars of Sandstone - takes place every two years and draws people from all over the world. Think of it as a rock festival, where the bands are steam engines - which include a pair of 100-year-old survivors (Rolling Stones, anyone?) from the long-lost Beira &amp; Mashonaland Railway in Mozambique - and tractors and classic cars playing live sets.The SA Armour Museum in Bloemfontein brings a few restored armoured vehicles, such as a Russian T-72 main battle tank, whose engine makes a sound that will make the hairs on your neck stand to attention. Once a day, you can join the military convoy that tours the farm and also see the world from the lofty perch of the Sherman's turret.</img>The farm s resident herd of Afrikander oxen reluctantly give way to the Sherman tank. Image: Paul Ash The farm s resident herd of Afrikander oxen reluctantly give way to the Sherman tank. Image: Paul Ash HOW TO SEE ITThe festival takes place from March 30 to April 9. Most visitors camp in the well-appointed campground. This year there will also be two open days for day visitors.COSTRates start at R912 per day (R399 per day for accompanying spouse; R228 for kids 12-18; R85.50 for under-12s).Open-day entrance is R228 per person, R114 for under 18s and R57 for children under 12.WHERE TO STAYAccommodation on the farm is limited to camping (R285 per stand per day). Nearby Clarens has plenty of accommodation where the excellent Protea Hotel by Marriott Clarens is offering a 20% discount with rates from R916 per person sharing per night. For bookings, call 086-111-9000 or visit proteahotels.com.HOW TO BOOKCall Dave Richardson 082-447-9167 or Leigh Sanders on 051-933-2235 or 079-327-7649. Alternatively visit sandstone-estates.com.