Everyone loves a listicle. Especially when it relates to an art fair. These rambling events overflowing with a diversity of art can be difficult to navigate. People want to be told what to look at and most importantly what to buy. Writers can burn their fingers with these sorts of listicles, particularly in advance of an art fair - you simply can't tell how you will feel about an artwork from studying a JPEG of it.The life-size jumping castle created by Michael Linders for the Smith Gallery might be a stand-out item at this year's Cape Town Art Fair, which will, for the second year running, be held at the Cape Town International Conference Centre. In an image, Linders's work appears like a prop for a kids' party. Gallery hopping: catch the creative wave that's sweeping through SA's art world You need to stand in front of art to gauge its impact in a fair. That is the appeal of art fairs; they allow you to consider art in a broader context and its temporariness. Even the artworks on the makeshift gallery walls on the stands are shifting as some are sold, or others don't prompt any interest and are thought to be a waste of very expensive wall space.Brett Murray's gargantuan bronze sculpture of a double bull titled Again Again, is not going to be whipped away at the drop of a hat from the Everard Read/Circa stand. Gold, shiny, sleek and massive, it will be their drawcard at the fair, before being installed at Circa Joburg for his first solo exhibition with the gallery, since leaving Goodman.The Goodman Gallery will be relying on their hardest hitter to generate attention and sales; William Kentridge. His ink- drawing portraits of Patrice Lumumba might turn heads - it is unusual subject matter for him. Apparently he produced them while he was undertaking research for Notes Towards a Model Opera, a retrospective in Beijing a few years ago. I already like Kendell Geers's wry mural featuring text that reads Be-Lie-Ve (believe). It takes a lot of belief in art to make art, or buy it.It is hard to think of Ed Young's cheeky scripto-visual art without Geers's legacy. Young reliably offers the Instagrammable art fair picture at the Smac Gallery, though he has become tamer - his Thanks for Coming painting at the Joburg Art Fair did not have the same impact as the I see black people one.While some male artists are peacocking, trying to prove how funny they are; female artists appear to be more interested in painting. The Barnard Gallery stand will present a strong selection of works by a remarkable rising group of female painters such as Alexia Vogel, Robyn Penn, Katherine Spindler and Sarah Biggs.</img> Be-Lie-Ve , a wry mural by Kendall Geers. Image: Supplied Be-Lie-Ve , a wry mural by Kendall Geers. Image: Supplied The artist's work I am most keen to see at the Tomorrows/Today featured stand, which presents art from around the continent, is that by the Madagascan artist Jo l Andrianomearisoa. Since witnessing the extraordinary fashion/art performance he did at the behest of the Goodman Gallery when the Maboneng precinct opened in the late noughties, I've been obsessed with his practice. It appears to have evolved into object-based abstract works that continue to draw from his fashion background - he uses textiles and other materials to generate minimalist works. OTHER ARTWORKS ON SHOW </img>A photographic series by Nigerian artist Lakin Ogunbanwo reflects irreverently on the language of race and identity in South Africa. On an artist s residency in Cape Town in 2015, he was struck by people self-identifying by skin colour: black, white and coloured . Unfamiliar with such racialised identities, he exploited this naivety in a spontaneous yet satirical reimagining of race. On at WHATIFTHEWORLD Gallery, Johannesburg; whatiftheworld.com. Image: Supplied A photographic series by Nigerian artist Lakin Ogunbanwo reflects irreverently on the language of race and identity in South Africa. On an artist s residency in Cape Town in 2015, he was struck by people self-identifying by skin colour: black, white and coloured . Unfamiliar with such racialised identities, he exploited this naivety in a spontaneous yet satirical reimagining of race. On at WHATIFTHEWORLD Gallery, Johannesburg; whatiftheworld.com. Image: Supplied</img>The Cape Town Art Fair showcases a diversity of contemporary art from Africa and the world. Work by more than 80 artists, curated by Tumelo Mosaka, spans two big halls. On at the Cape Town International Convention Centre from February 17 to 19. Tickets from capetownartfair.co.za. Image: Supplied The Cape Town Art Fair showcases a diversity of contemporary art from Africa and the world. Work by more than 80 artists, curated by Tumelo Mosaka, spans two big halls. On at the Cape Town International Convention Centre from February 17 to 19. Tickets from capetownartfair.co.za. Image: Supplied </img>Jody Paulsen s Pushing Thirty features the artist s signature felt collages and taxidermy - adorned bronze sculptures and photographic compositions. The artist translates vernacular icons, cliches and slogans, combined with the iconographic imprints of consumerism to create a dialogue between art, fashion and consumption. On at Cape Town s SMAC Gallery until March 25, smacgallery.com. Image: Supplied Jody Paulsen s Pushing Thirty features the artist s signature felt collages and taxidermy - adorned bronze sculptures and photographic compositions. The artist translates vernacular icons, cliches and slogans, combined with the iconographic imprints of consumerism to create a dialogue between art, fashion and consumption. On at Cape Town s SMAC Gallery until March 25, smacgallery.com. Image: Supplied The Cape Town Art Fair runs at the Cape Town International Conference Centre from Thursday to Sunday. This article was first published in The Times.