Yet Essam El Hadary is not only setting new records for longevity, but also looking to become the most successful footballer in African history. Today, he will earn his 151st cap for his country - having debuted in a friendly against South Korea in 1996 - when Egypt take on Cameroon in the final of the African Nations Cup. And if they win, it will give El Hadary an astonishing fifth Nations Cup winners' medal while extending his record as the tournament's oldest player at 44 years and 21 days.The goalkeeper from Wadi Degla was in the squad that won in 1998, understudy to Nader El Sayed, and first-choice when Egypt took an unprecedented triple of crowns back-to-back from 2006-2010. South Africa drawn against Botswana in CHAN qualifierHaving missed the last three editions, this is the first time they have qualified for the finals since. The side are now hungry to make amends and, though El Hadari straddles different generations of the Egyptian team, he says there is no marked difference between the current class and his colleagues of the past."Everyone is comparing the team to the older generation. Each generation has a personality and character of its own," he told reporters. "The generation of players with whom I played in the past, and with whom I won four Nations Cups, were a talented crop who grew in experience year after year and who played together for such a long time that success was inevitable."This new generation is still gaining that experience but I find they have the same determination and stamina."El Hadary has a daughter almost as old as the squad's youngest player, Ramadan Sobhi of Stoke City, who turned 20 a week ago. But a generation gap is largely absent, he insists."I tell them the stories of our past success; on how we did it, how we won," he said. "I find they like to hear the stories. It gives them a kind of motivation. But this team is so determined they don't need me to motivate them."We all have a loyalty to our country, we want to serve our country. It's in our nature."El Hadary and former teammate Ahmed Hassan hold the record for four Nations Cup victories, but the goalkeeper will mark his name in the record books alone if the Pharaohs triumph in today's final against the underdogs Cameroon.