Speaking after being elected yesterday following the resignation of Patricia de Lille, Madikizela said it was "a myth" to suggest that the party needed black leaders before it could grow its support.He argued that the DA had already started expanding under the leadership of white politicians such as Tony Leon and Helen Zille."It is a myth to think that a leader of a particular colour will be able to attract more votes of his or her race," Madikizela said. "If that was the case, the DA, which was led by Tony Leon, by Helen Zille, would not have been the second-biggest party in South Africa."Fight for top DA position gets dirty Madikizela's election follows a divisive DA leadership battle in the Western Cape that was marred by allegations of racism. When she quit at the end of last month, De Lille said she had achieved her goals as provincial leader and wanted to focus on her role as Cape Town mayor. Madikizela was elected with an overwhelming 75% of the votes. One of his main rivals for the post was De Lille ally Shaun August, the party's chief whip in the City of Cape Town council. Another contender for the provincial leadership, David Langeveld, did not bother to show up at the congress in Worcester after realising that he did not have enough support to win. Madikizela, who is also the MEC of human settlements in the Western Cape, said South Africans needed a leader who identified "with their plight". He added: "I think we need a leader that will continue with that brand, a leader that will lead with humility, a leader that will unite our people." Ahead of the 2019 general elections the DA would seek to grow its support in predominantly black communities that have traditionally been strongholds of the ANC. "If we're serious about being a party in government in 2019 we need to grow. We need to grow in those areas that have been particularly elusive for us, those ANC strongholds," said Madikizela. He will hold the post of interim leader in the Western Cape until a permanent leader is elected at the DA's provincial congress, scheduled for August.Madikizela is widely expected to win that vote too.