Black-owned investment holding company Brimstone aims to float 53-year-old fishing company Sea Harvest by the end of March, and raise about R1.5-billion in a prelisting private placing. Its main business is catching, processing and freezing hake.At the end of last year, African Equity Empowerment Investments (AEEI), formerly known as Sekunjalo Investments, a black-owned investment holding company, was preparing to list its Premier Food and Fishing division on March 2. Brimstone and AEEI are two of the JSE's most empowered companies.This will bring to three the number of directly listed options available to investors in the sector. Oceana Group - in which Brimstone has a stake - is the only dedicated fishing listing, with a market capitalisation of R16-billion.The listing of Sea Harvest will see Brimstone's stake drop from 85% to 52%. It will be used to pay down debt and give the fishing company, which already sells to 22 countries, access to capital to fund growth in South Africa and beyond. Sea Harvest has recorded strong growth in the past five years with 59% of its revenue and even more of its profit generated offshore.Brimstone CEO Mustaq Brey said the time was right to list. "We've been in Sea Harvest for 19 years. We believe we've added great value". Of the R1.5-billion, R300-million will be used to pay back debt. Minister stalls, so black fleet can't fishBut Jean Pierre Verster, portfolio manager at Fairtree Capital, questioned the timing in view of rand strength over the past year. "It doesn't seem to be a particularly good time, given the strength of the rand and the shenanigans in the department of fishing [sic] which is trying to empower the sector more. They've tried to reallocate the fishing rights ... to new entrants and not to the current fishing companies who have the ships. The department seems determined to reallocate quotas to newcomers," said Verster.A court case initiated by Viking Fishing is on over the awarding of fishing quotas for hake, and quotas have been suspended as a result. Long-term fishing rights are awarded for 15 years, but reallocation is at the discretion of the department. Quotas will be reallocated next in 2020.But Verster said most of Sea Harvest's money was made in export markets, and the listing would unlock some value in Brimstone "which currently trades at a significant discount to the sum of its parts"."So while there may be shenanigans currently in the awarding of fishing quotas, one would think that as a BEE- controlled firm they would still be relatively well placed locally, and internationally the capital raised will be used for further expansion."One can only make an informed decision once the price of the share placement is known. But Brimstone has probably been the most successful publicly traded BEE company; the core has been a stake in Life Healthcare, and Sea Harvest and Oceana have done very well for them. And they participated in the BEE schemes of Old Mutual and Nedbank among others."Apart from Australia, Sea Harvest also exports to Europe. "The US markets, while we're there in a small way, we're hoping to expand more significantly into China and the East as well," said Fred Robertson, chairman of Brimstone and Sea Harvest.Since 2009, Brimstone has invested about R776-million mostly in new vessels and plant efficiencies, and last year bought 55.9% of Australia- listed Mareterram."We play very well in the defensive areas like food and private healthcare," said Robertson, adding that the group had a diversified income stream including property investments such as Equites Property Fund, Sea Harvest in Australia, Oceana in the US, and Life Healthcare in Poland and India, and was now entering the UK and Europe.The group did not see fishing quotas as a challenge, and this related mostly to hake fishing. "It's part of our environment. In 2020, the deep sea rights come up for review and the department will assess with the scientists what the total allowable catch is based on biomass" said Brey.An analyst who did not want to be named said that as Sea Harvest was black-owned it should be fine from a quota point of view. "They've got a bit of a niche in abalone and South Coast rock lobster which is probably good margin business, particularly because the lobster is exported to the US. What's not very good is they don't have a very strong brand in their stable; they're very much in commodities."Shareholders will decide on the listing at a meeting on March 9.