WHAT'S IN Terracotta is making a comeback, but forget the chunky, glossy tiles you used to see in your great aunt's house. Whether you're looking for planters, tiles, hanging pendant lights or kitchenware, contemporary terracotta tends towards a matte finish and is often accompanied by a stylish glaze, adding character and warmth.2017 will see a spotlight on hand-crafted homeware from local designers. SA has a wealth of talented furniture and homeware producers on tap. Dark shades of green are set to become the new must-have interior colour. Whether you're painting a feature wall, upholstering a chair, or bringing in small accessories, this is the perfect way to bring outdoor colours inside. Trend alert! 7 ways to hygge the hell out of your homeIn line with the Danish concept of Hygge, interiors will see spaces devoid of digital distraction becoming a priority. So, a bay window or a comfy chair in a TV-free room, it's all about creating cosy corners of calm and tranquillity. This trend comes with a surge in comfortable furniture: deep sofas with sheepskin throws, day beds, luxurious rugs and floor cushions. While 2016 was all about pastels, jewel tones are set to take centre stage. Saturated hues such as emerald green, ruby red and sapphire blue will be seen in furniture, wallpaper, textiles and more, bringing a sense of luxury and indulgence. WHAT'S OUT It's had a long run, but copper has finally seen its day. In its place, expect options such as brass, gold, chrome and silver to slide back onto the scene.Pinterest pinpoints the top home & lifestyle trends for 2017This year is all about texture, so rather than sleek, minimal aesthetics, we'll be seeing more textural and warm items, laden with oversized stitches, pleats, folds and other finishes that allow for an emotional connection.Local, handmade design is taking the place of cheap fakes, no matter where you are in the world. So make this the year to buy a few well-made pieces that have a story and will last you a lifetime.The clean Scandi look has its virtues, but designers are turning towards colour in a serious way in 2017. Rich, dark tones will dominate everything from textiles to furniture.You may want all the elements in a space to complement each other, but they definitely don't need to match. Wood types, couches, scatter cushions or rugs, matching sets are on their way out.