Nearly three weeks on from the tournament in Gabon, all of the technical staff - bar head coach Avram Grant - have still to be paid."We don't have the money," a Ghana Football Association (GFA) official told BBC Sport.Assistant coach Gerard Nus is refusing to fly to his home nation Spain until the matter is addressed."It's frustrating," the Spaniard told BBC Sport. Talented Black Stars gunning for glory again"Like any human being, when you do work you want to get paid - I don't think there's anything strange in that. I'm just going to wait here until they come with a good solution. Local people tell me that if I leave without a payment, most likely I will never get paid."It's sad to hear that because basically all I'm claiming is money I've been promised for the job done."The Ghana Football Association has sought assistance from the country's national government to settle the matter."The ministry is working for the government to release funds for them to be paid," the official explained. "It's not only Nus, but the entire technical team and backroom staff."Fitness coach Jamie Lawrence, who played in the Premier League with Bradford City, says he has lost work because of the payment delays."It's very frustrating. They told us the money would be paid as soon as we got back to Ghana and they have not fulfilled the promise," the 46-year-old former Jamaica international told BBC Sport."I was away longer than anyone else - two months - and I went at the drop of a hat with 18 hours' notice for Avram and they haven't paid the money."Ninety percent of the team were not playing regularly for their clubs and I got them up to speed before the tournament."The Black Stars of Ghana have failed to win the Africa Cup of Nations since 1982, despite reaching the last six semifinals."I've been promised that I will get the rest of the money in the next 14 days. This hasn't put me off working in African football again but I have missed out on work because of this, when I was waiting for the money in Ghana," added Lawrence. They say I will get paid and I believe them. They are nice people and I trust them but it's one day, another day, another day and another day - and the issue is not getting sorted out Ghana extended a Cup of Nations record in Gabon this year when becoming the first team to reach six semifinals. But the four-time African champions again failed to win a first title since 1982 as they were beaten 2-0 by Cameroon in the semifinals.Having taken charge after a disastrous 2014 Fifa World Cup for Ghana, Grant, an Israeli, left his post earlier this month after deciding against renewing his contract.Nus also works at Spanish La Liga side Rayo Vallecano, who have been working without their assistant technical director in recent weeks.However, he is prepared to stay put until he is paid his salary by the Ghana Football Association."They say I will get paid and I believe them. They are nice people and I trust them but it's one day, another day, another day and another day - and the issue is not getting sorted out. I will be here as long as it takes."