True as Bob, Madala, the monicker the Kaizer Chiefs' supremo responds to, hosted the fourth estate and pulled a high ace on us, pun intended.Toyota are back in the family business fold.For the next three years, the Japanese company will cater for the transportation needs of the club. The ceremony on Wednesday was crowned by Chiefs players driving the fleet to the entry for all to see. Coach Broos takes a dig at stay-at-homesAt that moment, you could swear the scene was a shoot from Isibaya.With the hoots of the black-and-gold-emblazoned automobiles honking, Brilliant Khuzwayo looked the part of a taxi driver. Him behind the wheel of a Quantum was a match made in heaven.With that full-on beard, Itumeleng Khune resembled a no-nonsense, foul-mouthed, fast-fisted queue marshall.Bobby easily fitted the part of the long-lost cousin to the gun-toting, muthi-loving taxi baron Ndlovu from the popular soapie.Motaung reminisced that the Glamour Boys Taxi Association started in 1981 when Toyota sponsored Chiefs with three HiAce vehicles.In their second coming, the partners have provided Chiefs with a fleet of 20. They include Khune and Khuzwayo's Quantams, Jessica and Kemiso's Corollas and King Kaizer's Fortuners.One of the 20 cars will be a prize for the player of the season.Convincing Toyota to add four more vehicles as part of the package would have been a masterstroke.Those vehicles could have been dedicated as part of a prize fans stood to win in a competition centred on a drive to bring the fans back to the stadium.The thousands of empty orange seats at Chiefs' home games at FNB Stadium are an eyesore akin to Trump's toupee.Sponsors come to Chiefs and other clubs because they want access to the captured audience.CEO and president of Toyota South Africa, Andrew Kirby, put it aptly when he said: "We believe that the Kaizer Chiefs fans are our future customer base - current and future drivers. And we're very pleased to form a stronger relationship with them in particular." Let's try new ideas and fail rather than failing to even try. And if we fail, let's try again until we get it right Forming stronger ties with their fan base to return them to the arenas is an area clubs cannot continue to neglect or treat as a mere afterthought.More often than not, club bosses are lightning quick to point out the reasons why numbers are in a permanent state of decline. Malls. Technology. Television overexposure.If you attend a game, you forfeit the football fare laid out on television in the form of Spanish La Liga and English Premier League.Yet local clubs are snail's pace slow in coming up with solutions. It is incumbent upon clubs to create a cocktail of causes to attract fans to the terraces like bees to honey.Crying foul and maintaining a laissez-faire approach will not help. The question of access must be considered. For example, access to Orlando Stadium, even for people who stay in Soweto, is a challenge. The transport system does not speak to each other. You can get there. But after full-time how do you get home? Dilly-ding, dilly-dong, we may be going downThe nomadic nature of teams also adds to the few bums on seats. Because we have to make use of the World Cup stadiums to ensure they don't become white elephants, municipalities pay teams to play there. You find Gauteng teams playing a certain number of home games in Polokwane, Mbombela and Durban.If we need to sustain the bigger stadiums, perhaps using them exclusively for cup competitions could do the trick.The situation of just not looking for creative ways to combat the scarcity of supporters at stadiums is lazy thinking. This thing of DJ's blaring "doof-doof, tjovitjo" is outdated.For instance, if you want to capture people with young families, arrange activities that may interest those with a lesser inclination to football, but who may have something to do prior to the match.The league could capitalise on the popularity of the MultiChoice Diski Challenge.Those games attract full houses because entrance is free.How about using those games as curtain- raisers to PSL matches? Fans will know the younger players coming through the ranks firsthand. They will track the progress of senior players coming from injury.Let's try new ideas and fail rather than failing to even try. And if we fail, let's try again until we get it right.Twitter: @bbkunplugged99