But the approach of the Neal Froneman-led Sibanye is the polar opposite. This miner, formed out of the more labour-intensive and older South African gold operations of Gold Fields, has been on a shopping spree since its 2013 listing. Its focus is not likely to change in the medium term."We've registered our interests with all gold and platinum companies in South Africa," Froneman said in an interview on the sidelines of the Mining Indaba. Amsa seeks cheaper electricity"And, of course, if the right opportunity comes along at the right price we will certainly look into it." His company had a bullish view on platinum-group metals - hence the acquisitions, he said. While this expansion has been welcomed, the miner's last and biggest deal was not received favourably.Sibanye's share price fell more than 15% on news of its acquisition of Stillwater, the Montana-based US PGM company, for $2.2-billion, which is bigger than its market capitalisation. Critics said that the deal was expensive, and were wondering what synergies could be found. Froneman said the acquisition of Stillwater should not be perceived as suggesting that there were no opportunities in South Africa. But companies should strive to be globally competitive, and the domestic market still had to address certain issues, he said. "Its difficult to find value right now in South Africa. The political climate is also tough, regulatory uncertainty, we have a new mining charter which is going to increase the cost of business, and until you know exactly what you have it's hard to make proper investment decisions." Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane has said that he expects the review of the mining charter to be completed by the end of the first quarter.On the gold mining industry, Froneman said he was expecting a tough year. The temporarily strong rand had shrunk margins so it was no wonder that gold miners are restructuring, he said.Over the past 12 months, the rand strengthened 16% against the US dollar, but the dollar price of gold had gained only 2.3%.Sibanye had reserves of about 30-million ounces of gold and it mined 1.5-million ounces a year, meaning that its mines had about 20 years left.