Dear EkowI'm sorry, I mistook you for Thor, the god of thunder. I know, I know, Thor is ... well, Thor ... and you are, I can see now ... quite different. It must be the way you write, it's very Thor-like, if Thor wielded a pen instead of a hammer.Dear DianeI have an extra toe. It's not vestigial: it has a bone and everything. Do you want to see it?Dear GarethThere's something sexy about your obsessive-compulsiveness. You had me at Jerry Maguire. Let's go spider-hunting. Romance isn't dead because it barely existed to begin withDear ShubnumIt's been such a busy day at the camp but I could not go to sleep without writing to you. We saved three children today and even though the nurses say it was because of my skill as a surgeon, I know it was only because of the help of everyone that we make any difference here at all. I think of you all the time and wonder when I will have you in my arms again.Dear AntonJane came by with a lock of your hair. She said you gave it to her the night you planned to go clear. Did you ever go clear?Dear YolisaHaving seen the curvature at the bottom of your back, I am tempted to ask if that's jelly, cos jam don't shake like that. I've scheduled an inspection just to make sure, following which we can spend the day using Balzac quotes to express our dread at the impending nuclear apocalypse. PS I'll bring the whisky.Dear MoiraI love your crinkling hair; I love your wrinkling skin; your growing-older looks; your brain that's stacked with books. I love the way you make words say things they hadn't thought of; the way you make words play sounds that they seemed short of. And though I love the swollen joints that fatten up your fingers, I love much more the constant way your youthful slimness lingers. Dear Keith, I'm just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him ... "How do you prefer your steak?" Dear TsepangI really like your hat. I hear you write, if you behave I will tell you my story. Let's share a bottle of Fat Bastard, listen to Nina Simone, and get naked.Dear NadineI was voted sexiest man alive in some international magazines, but I am too busy working to save the planet to take notice of such nonsense. Apart from you, I am completely besotted with labradors. I have been diagnosed with a strange new condition: my doctor says my penis could fall off from guilt if I cheat on my partner.Dear NthikengI was wrong to think eternity has anything to do with time or some vague, distant worlds. I have been stealing glances at your eyes for 900 days now; each day feels like a thousand, bears the weightlessness of a much-tickled heart. Find brains sexier than butts & boobs? Welcome to the sapiosexual clubDear PearlI walked behind you on your way to the lift. I watched you sway your hips because you know you're a goddess. I couldn't take my eyes off that ass.Dear ZahraI keep falling in love with you. This weekend it was when your body fire-flied to experimental jazz under the strobe lights and you had glitter under your eyes but there were stars in mine. And then it happened again, after the concert, when I asked you where you were leading me in the Braamfontein darkness and you reminded me that not everything had to be planned, you reminded me that I didn't care where I was as long as I could see you glowing.Dear ShanthiniCaptain America: Take away the suit and what are you?Iron Man: A genius billionaire playboy philanthropist.Take away the "playboy" and that could be me.</img>Words can shoot arrows straight to the heart. Image: iStock Words can shoot arrows straight to the heart. Image: iStock Dear BruceWelcome home. The kids are at my parents' place and the TV's on the football channel. Oh, and I bought you a new guitar hope you like it.Dear YvonneIf you will be mine, I will dance like a madman under the full moon. I will be as a huge tail wagged by a delirious dog. My every Coca-Cola glass will be filled with champagne, if you would just be mine.Dear CraigLet's play one another the songs we were too embarrassed to admit we liked as teens. Let's play with strangers' dogs in the park. Let's play for keeps. Dear Jessica, Your curly hair wraps itself around my heart like tentacles of lurv. Your pasty skin is reminiscent of the white beaches of the Seychelles. Grab your passport and let's go Dear ReaYou're the sun of my morning. Spaceships are made to find people like you. You're out of this planet. Being with you should be my Valentine every day.Dear JenniferI think about you all the time. I just don't show it all the time as I don't want to come across as all screwy and stalker-like. You're the one that I want - oo, oo, oo ...Dear SbuA good man makes a good husband and a good husband becomes a good father this is what you are to your family: a man who stands head and shoulders above the rest. I'm glad we found each other "us" is what I believe is the definition of Love and Happiness. I love you plenty and then some.</img>Showing your heart for all to see isn't always such a bad idea. Image: iStock Showing your heart for all to see isn't always such a bad idea. Image: iStock Hey CatrionaYou might not remember but we met at the Book Lounge birthday party a year ago. I see you too have a poem featured in the Commonwealth Writers' Award Anthology, and if Grieving for Beginners concerns a real event, I'm so sorry for your loss. I've wondered for a while whether to tell you this or not: I wrote my poem, Could Have Been (It), about you.Dear AyeshaI don't need you to complete me. Or support me. I need you to love and share with. We two are independent, whole, passionate beings. Our togetherness could set the night sky aflame. Dear Paige, I don't eat bacon, so when we go out to breakfast you can have mine as well as yours. Maybe we can text sometime? I always spell out all the words. Dear MicheleCan I play this song for you on my guitar? Can I cook you supper? Can I show you my library?Dear JemI read books. I don't smoke. I'm very quiet.Dear DonnayWhere did you go? I really miss you. Please come back now. Romance isn't dead because it barely existed to begin withDear Leigh-Anne (Mom)hi. I left you a prezint. It is under your Pillo. Ok I will tel you. It is likorish. i ate all the blak wuns. And the pinc wuns ... axilly i ate all of dem but Daddy says its the thoot that CountsDear TiahThank you for being such a good sport about that time we surfed in shark-infested waters, camped with a bear and when I drove you through a lion-infested game park on the back of a motorcycle. We haven't managed to kill each other yet, and I'm grateful. Love, your husbandDear NikkiYou're a little strange, peculiar in a good way and make me laugh. It's kind of scary but intriguing. Tell me more.Dear SueI'm a cat.