A recent survey has found that at least half of us have a history of heart disease in our families, and we are not doing much to stop the cycle.The Heart and Stroke Foundation says heart disease and stroke are the biggest killers in South Africa after HIV/Aids and the victims are getting younger.The dirty truth about 'clean eating' diets that claim to be cure-allsSome findings include: Heart disease now affects people of working age. More than half the deaths occur in people under the age of 65; Our lifestyles are killing us. Over-eating, smoking and alcohol are too prevalent in the South African lifestyle; Half of our adult population is overweight, as are one in four children; South Africa has one of the highest rates of high blood pressure worldwide, affecting one in three of us; About 210 people die from heart disease every day; and Most importantly, 80% of early deaths can be prevented by a lifestyle change.Nicole Jennings, spokesman for cardiovascular medicine provider Pharma Dynamics, says its latest study on heart health shows we just don't care enough."Unfortunately, it usually takes someone we know to have a heart attack or stroke before we take our own heart-health seriously," says Jennings.Menopause: anti-inflammatory diet could help prevent fractures & boost bone health"While certain genetic risk factors for these conditions cannot be prevented, risk factors that relate to lifestyle account for the majority of heart disease and can be changed. A healthy lifestyle can help save your life."Out of 2,000 people surveyed, almost half (46%) pleaded guilty to activities that put them at risk of heart disease, which include consuming too much salty, sugary and greasy foods, while also living a sedentary lifestyle.Jennings said the first step was for people to "identify their individual risk factors"."Another worrying trend among young adults is that a staggering 21% are not taking proactive steps to lower their blood pressure. Conversely, older adults seem to be the most proactive in taking care of their hearts, with 88% changing their eating habits by cutting back on salt and 69% engaging in regular exercise."She said people should already be watching their heart health in their early 20s and 30s."In their 40s, it is almost too late. Everyone can and should do something to help reduce their future risk of heart disease, even if you don't think you are at high risk." TIPS FOR A HEART-HEALTHY VALENTINE'S DAY Choose dark chocolate over other treats, but check the sugar content. It is high in antioxidants, which could reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Choose an active date night. Walk, hike, run or dance. At least 30 to 60 minutes of heart-pounding physical activity gives you maximum benefits. Relax with loved ones. Don't be surprised, stress-reduced quality time is great for your heart. Use music for good. Relaxing music has an immediate effect on blood pressure and heart rate. Choose heart-healthy meals for Valentine's Day and every day. Pharma Dynamics has pledged to raise R100,000 for the Heart and Stroke Foundation during February as part of the #hugyourheart campaign. Visit hugyourheart.co.za, click and share, and it will donate R5 to the foundation.