Ardie Savea, Vince Aso and Michael Fatialofa all crashed over the line twice in the Tokyo sunshine as the visitors threatened to break a slew of records against a shambolic Sunwolves side looking to rebound from last year's baptism of fire.Flyhalf Otere Black added nine conversions.Late tries from Shokei Kin and Willie Britz barely papered over the cracks for the Tokyo-based Sunwolves, who won just one of 15 games in their inaugural Super Rugby season. Super Rugby faces burning questions"It was a tough old day at the office," Sunwolves head coach Filo Tiatia told reporters. "But what I was really pleased about was that the players didn't give up. We managed to score three tries against a very, very good defensive team. You could look at the scoreboard and yes, it was a big score," added the New Zealander. "But there are lessons in life. Twelve guys made their debut today, awesome - I think we should be celebrating that." All Blacks winger Julian Savea produced arguably the moment of the match after 28 minutes when he ran coast-to-coast to score, living up to his nickname "The Bus" as he smashed through two tackles to race clear.Jordie Barrett, younger brother of All Black star Beauden, lit up an impressive Super Rugby debut at fullback with a brilliant pass for Hurricanes skipper TJ Perenara to break the tryline and an outrageous sidestep to set up Ngani Laumape.South African Riaan Viljoen finally got the Sunwolves on the scoreboard with six minutes left in the first half.But after taking a 45-5 lead into halftime, the Hurricanes continued to run riot as a Laumape lob pass allowed Blade Thomson to score soon after the interval.Within five minutes Fatialofa and Brad Shields added further tries and when substitute Wes Goosen capitalised on yet another Sunwolves error to make it 83-5 on the hour mark, the Hurricanes looked like racking up a century.SCORERSSunwolves 17 - Tries: Riaan Viljoen, Shokei Kin, Willie Britz . Conversion: Timothy Lafaele.Hurricanes 83 - Tries: Ardie Savea (2), Michael Fatialofa (2), Vince Aso, Ricky Riccitelli, TJ Perenara, Julian Savea, Ngani Laumape, Blade Thomson, Brad Shields, Vince Aso, Wes Goosen. Conversions: Otere Black (9). Sunwolves (5) 17Hurricanes (45) 83