</img>Controversial media personality Gareth Cliff, seen here with his legal representative Dali Mpofu, went head-to-head with television channel M-Net in the Johannesburg High Court. They walk past 'waste picker' Oscar Maile after a session on the first day of court. Cliff was fighting for his job as an Idols judge, which he lost after he waded into the race debate that exploded after Penny Sparrow called black beachgoers "monkeys". He ultimately won the case and Cliff was reinstated as judge. Image: Alon Skuy Controversial media personality Gareth Cliff, seen here with his legal representative Dali Mpofu, went head-to-head with television channel M-Net in the Johannesburg High Court. They walk past 'waste picker' Oscar Maile after a session on the first day of court. Cliff was fighting for his job as an Idols judge, which he lost after he waded into the race debate that exploded after Penny Sparrow called black beachgoers "monkeys". He ultimately won the case and Cliff was reinstated as judge. Image: Alon Skuy </img>Christina Khumalo (5) poses for a picture in an Astronaut space suit, while her mom, Nelisile, and brother Chris Junior await. Christina loves space and convinced her mother to take her to the exhibition. 'Gateway to Space, The Exhibition', held at The Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg. Billed on the website as follows. "It s time to discover, learn and experience! Come and have a look inside the 15m Mir space station, a Sputnik 1 model, a full-size lunar rover model, an Apollo capsule design for future space exploration, and even touch the moon and 55 other space exhibits at Gateway The exhibition brings, for the first time, the great adventure of space exploration to South Africa." Image: Alon Skuy Christina Khumalo (5) poses for a picture in an Astronaut space suit, while her mom, Nelisile, and brother Chris Junior await. Christina loves space and convinced her mother to take her to the exhibition. 'Gateway to Space, The Exhibition', held at The Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg. Billed on the website as follows. "It s time to discover, learn and experience! Come and have a look inside the 15m Mir space station, a Sputnik 1 model, a full-size lunar rover model, an Apollo capsule design for future space exploration, and even touch the moon and 55 other space exhibits at Gateway The exhibition brings, for the first time, the great adventure of space exploration to South Africa." Image: Alon Skuy </img>Oscar Pistorius stands without his prosthetic limbs in front of a packed courtroom. The former lauded runner was asked by his defence counsel Barry Roux to remove his fake limbs to demonstrate how vulnerable the Paralympian was without his prosthetics. Pistorius was on his stumps when he fatally shot Reeva Steenkamp through a toilet cubicle door in his home 2013 - he testified at his murder trial that he felt vulnerable and thought an intruder was in the house. He was convicted of murder by the Supreme Court of Appeal of South Africa for killing his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp in 2013. Pistorius is currently serving a prison term in a prison in Prertoria, South Africa. Image: Alon Skuy Oscar Pistorius stands without his prosthetic limbs in front of a packed courtroom. The former lauded runner was asked by his defence counsel Barry Roux to remove his fake limbs to demonstrate how vulnerable the Paralympian was without his prosthetics. Pistorius was on his stumps when he fatally shot Reeva Steenkamp through a toilet cubicle door in his home 2013 - he testified at his murder trial that he felt vulnerable and thought an intruder was in the house. He was convicted of murder by the Supreme Court of Appeal of South Africa for killing his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp in 2013. Pistorius is currently serving a prison term in a prison in Prertoria, South Africa. Image: Alon Skuy </img>Arnold Schwarzenegger plays for the camera while posing for a portrait in Sandton , Johannesburg. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the legendary professional body-builder and Hollywood actor, celebrated a South African homecoming in the country where he won the Mr Olympia title 41 years ago. Schwarzenegger was in South Africa for the inaugural Arnold Classic Africa held at Sandton Convention Centre, in Johannesburg, between 27-29 May. Image: Alon Skuy Arnold Schwarzenegger plays for the camera while posing for a portrait in Sandton , Johannesburg. Arnold Schwarzenegger, the legendary professional body-builder and Hollywood actor, celebrated a South African homecoming in the country where he won the Mr Olympia title 41 years ago. Schwarzenegger was in South Africa for the inaugural Arnold Classic Africa held at Sandton Convention Centre, in Johannesburg, between 27-29 May. Image: Alon Skuy </img>Caleb grimaces as he demonstrates how he works his legs, during an intense training session at Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre, close to the orphanage where he lives. The 19 year old was born with a sickle-cell disease (SCD) in The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and now lives at Kids Haven, an orphanage east of Johannesburg. His trainer , Ryan Manthe of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre, was inspired to help him after seeing him get up on stage with other bodybuilders at a competition in Kempton Park. Image: Alon Skuy Caleb grimaces as he demonstrates how he works his legs, during an intense training session at Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre, close to the orphanage where he lives. The 19 year old was born with a sickle-cell disease (SCD) in The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and now lives at Kids Haven, an orphanage east of Johannesburg. His trainer , Ryan Manthe of Trinergy Health and Fitness Centre, was inspired to help him after seeing him get up on stage with other bodybuilders at a competition in Kempton Park. Image: Alon Skuy </img>The moment Caleb has been working so hard for. He is seen on stage enjoying himself in front of a large crowd, in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding categorY, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. He came third out of three people but Caleb still considers his performance a victory. Image: Alon Skuy The moment Caleb has been working so hard for. He is seen on stage enjoying himself in front of a large crowd, in the up to 175cm's under 23 junior bodybuilding categorY, at The Summer Superbodies Competition, at Maragon School in Ruimsig, Johannesburg. He came third out of three people but Caleb still considers his performance a victory. Image: Alon Skuy </img>A masked protestor is seen on the lawns of The Union Buildings during a march by a group of Fees Must Fall protesters to the Union Buildings in Pretoria calling for free tertiary education. In mid October 2015, a student led protest movement began in response to an increase in fees at South African universities. The Protests started at the University of Witwatersrand (Wits) and spread to various other universities including the University of Cape Town and Rhodes University. The rapid spread to other universities resulted in widespread damage and discontentment amongst the authorities. Image: Alon Skuy A masked protestor is seen on the lawns of The Union Buildings during a march by a group of Fees Must Fall protesters to the Union Buildings in Pretoria calling for free tertiary education. In mid October 2015, a student led protest movement began in response to an increase in fees at South African universities. The Protests started at the University of Witwatersrand (Wits) and spread to various other universities including the University of Cape Town and Rhodes University. The rapid spread to other universities resulted in widespread damage and discontentment amongst the authorities. Image: Alon Skuy </img>A lone anti gay demonstrator standing in front of a church, is mocked by Betty Bangles, during a pride parade through the small town of Knysna. Thousands attended the parade, which was a culmination of The Pink Loerie Mardi Gras & Arts Festival Knynsa,is billed as 'an annual celebration of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) culture and identity and is proudly hosted in the picturesque town of Knysna." Image: Alon Skuy A lone anti gay demonstrator standing in front of a church, is mocked by Betty Bangles, during a pride parade through the small town of Knysna. Thousands attended the parade, which was a culmination of The Pink Loerie Mardi Gras & Arts Festival Knynsa,is billed as 'an annual celebration of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) culture and identity and is proudly hosted in the picturesque town of Knysna." Image: Alon Skuy </img>A man sleeps out on the street, on a gloomy day, next to a piece entitled Maboneng Man, by local artist, Ledelle Moe, this forms part of her Displacements series. Maboneng, a formerly poorer and less developed area in inner city Johannesburg has been undergoing a process of gentrification. Image: Alon Skuy A man sleeps out on the street, on a gloomy day, next to a piece entitled Maboneng Man, by local artist, Ledelle Moe, this forms part of her Displacements series. Maboneng, a formerly poorer and less developed area in inner city Johannesburg has been undergoing a process of gentrification. Image: Alon Skuy For the full set of his winning pictures, visit http://www.poyi.org/74/32/02