COOK This is one of my favourite recipes; it's fast, simple and hugely satisfyingServes: 2Ingredients:250g brinjal, thickly slicedCoarse salt7 tbsp virgin olive oil1 tsp chopped Thai chilli1 clove garlic, very finely slivered 4 dessertspoons rice vinegar 2-3 tbsp best soy sauce 1 tsp brown sugar (or Xylitol) 1 big handful chopped coriander, leaves and stems 300g firm white fish fillets**I love farmed seabass or kabeljou with this, but hake isn't shabby if you can manage the feat of finding decent quality hake in our fishmongers. You know you shouldn't be using sole or kingklip, so just don't.Korean-style roasted brinjals with peanuts, chilli & mintMethod:1) Coat the brinjal slices with 5 tbsp of the olive oil, and salt liberally. In a hot oven or medium pan, cook brinjal in a single layer, turning once dark brown.2) While it's cooking mix the vinegar, ginger, soy and chilli in a cup.3) Remove brinjal from heat when it's mostly dark brown on both sides and velvety soft within. Add the vinegar-soy mix. Check balance and adjust sweetness, acidity, heat and salt. Rest the brinjals (the flavour improves if served only lukewarm).4) Coat fish fillets with the remaining 2 tbsp oil, then salt liberally and bake, grill or pan-fry until just opaque through (less then 10 minutes probably).5) Plate fish, ladle over brinjal and scatter coriander over the whole thing. This is at its best with steamed rice, but it's also good as is. BUY Some of my favourite brinjal fixes come from the magnificent King Arabic food stand at the Rosebank Mall rooftop market.Hanan Ahmed and Mohammed Sultan offer a range of top-level Middle Eastern delights of royal banquet proportions.In terms of bounty, beauty and quality, few market stands (or Middle Eastern restaurants for that matter) can come close. Choose from bowls of labneh, humus and vegetable pickles; savoury pastry pies, brilliant schwarma, falafel, halva, date biscuits, hibiscus tea and more.Stock up, or get there early and cater your entire Sunday lunch from the array (there's even an all-natural olive oil soap for the guest loo). My fixes come in the form of garlicky baby brinjal stuffed with pickled walnuts, and juicy steak and brinjal ''pie".