Ricardo Nascimento's 83rd minute penalty came after great sustained pressure from Downs against the Democratic Republic of Congo giants.It might have been played out on home Loftus Versfeld soil, but this Super Cup had a European cup final feel to it. As many as 15 000 of Gauteng's Congolese immigrant community filled the lower east stand in the capital, rivalling their Sundowns counterparts in number. Gordinho goal takes Amakhosi to No1 spotMazembe had the greater pedigree - five Champions League titles and three Super Cups to Downs' one of the former.The Brazilians knew that if they could not wrap up one more continental prize by beating TP Mazembe at home, questions would already be asked of their Champions League victory, impressively gained as it was, as a one-off. They kept their nerve, and muscled past the visitors.In the end, Sundowns were just the better team.TP Mazembe might have lost four players to Europe recently but they lined up with an imposing assortment of the internationals.Their stars included Ivory Coast goalkeeper Sylvain Gbohouo, the Ghanaian pair of Solomon Asante on the left wing and Daniel Adjei at playmaker, and Zambians Nathan Sinkala in defensive midfield and Rainford Kalaba at deep striker.It is not often Downs' stars - the same line-up from coach Pitso Mosimane, apart from Wayne Arendse back in central defence, that demolished Orlando Pirates 6-0 here last Saturday - will feel matched on paper. This was one such occasion.A first 15 minutes played at a frightening pace should have seen both sides, but especially TP Mazembe, score. In the ninth minute, striker Ben Malango cantered through and hit the woodwork. Not once, though, but twice, the second time off Downs keeper Denis Onyango.Sundowns had three half chances in reply. ... and just keep afloat in the Mother CityAnthony Laffor and Khama Billiat combined for three opportunities before the break.From the change rooms, Downs played a waiting chess game where they slowly removed the important pieces. They probed intelligently.They knew they were the Champions League winners, so should theoretically be the slightly stronger side than the Confederation Cup holders. And they had home advantage.Hlompo Kekana slammed a rocket at Gbohouo. Billiat put Laffor through who inexcusably missed the target. Tau and Tiyani Mabunda combined for the latter to force a stop from 5m from Gbohouo.In the 78th minute, Downs' moment of reward for their patient utilisation of almost all the possession appeared to arrive. Tau was played onside and fed Laffor inside, who calmly beat Salif Coulibaly, but could not beat Gbohouo.A goal had to come. In the 80th Sinkala's back-pass was to Tau, who found Billiat to feed Kekana, who was challenged with contact by Issama Mpeko. Egyptian referee Ghead Grisha pointed to the spot, and Nascimento rolled past Gbohouo.sports@timesmedia.co.za