One way to avoid having to pay an arm and a leg for furniture, appliances or clothing is to check out second-hand suppliers.There are plenty of websites such as Gumtree, takealot.com and OLX where you can find great deals.In buy and sell groups on Facebook, you may be able to track down good deals on almost-new appliances . And if the seller is relocating and needs to offload goods fast, they may be willing to negotiate the price - just make sure you have transport to move the item. Simplifying your finances a bit like clearing out a houseIf you are in the market for clothes, check out second-hand and charity shops, which often stock good-quality clothing at low prices.And if your tastes are slightly more expensive than you financial means, there are also shops that sell quality used designer clothes for a snip compared with what the new item would cost.Buyer beware: It's important to note that with most second-hand items, there is no return policy. Make peace with this and be prepared to repair items on your own dime; Watch out for scammers. Make sure you're not paying an impossibly low price - on a cellphone, for example - or that the item is more expensive than if you bought it new.If it's an appliance, try to test it before you part with your hard-earned money; If you're buying clothing, try it on first, otherwise you might end up having to give it away; andDon't pay for an item that you might not get. It's very easy for you to pay for something only for the "seller" to simply switch off their phone when it's time to pick it up. Be alert and prudent.Second-hand dealers could also be a great way for you to declutter your home and get rid of unwanted furniture or appliances that are still in good condition.However, just as buyers need to be alert to scams and the quality of the goods they are getting, you should ensure you make a payment arrangement that suits you. Turn your financial goals into bite-sized chunks Seller beware: Many people have been scammed out of money through false SMS notifications or phoney e-mail confirmations. Don't part with your goods until you're sure that the money has actually gone through; Ask for an instant cash-send solution, which is offered by most banks. You have access to a pin and a wallet of money so you should be able to check your balance using your own number; and You should also call the bank just to ensure that the transaction is legitimate. If you're going to be paid in cash, make sure you go with someone you know to collect the money.To buyers and sellers:Be safe. Avoid going to strange places by yourself.Depending on the size of the appliance, find a place you're both comfortable with and swap the money and the item there.Whether you're buying or selling, second-hand items can help you save a lot of money and still get you your decor or wardrobe just the way you want it. Just keep it within your means.tsamelad@sundaytimes.co.za