The online advert for the 21-square-metre ''cottage'' stirred up so much madness that agents had to remove it.The estate agent responsible for the property in Gardens Jenn Baker has received hundreds of enquiries already. Karsten said in her 13 years in the industry it is something she has never seen before". I don't think we were expecting to get quite this response but the response was from a mixed bag of people who were interested and then people who were saying: 'You've got to be kidding' Karsten said.The tiny house sports one bedroom a kitchenette a lounge and an en-suite bathroom but the owner is rewarded with a 74-square-metre ''exclusive use'' yard and a vista on one of the seven natural wonders of the world to wake up to.The asking price is R950 000.</img>The future owner of this tiny home would have "exclusive use" of a 74 square meter yard. Image: RE/MAX Property Associates The future owner of this tiny home would have "exclusive use" of a 74 square meter yard. Image: RE/MAX Property Associates </img>The tiny house sports one bedroom a kitchenette a lounge and an en-suite bathroom. Image: RE/MAX Property Associates The tiny house sports one bedroom a kitchenette a lounge and an en-suite bathroom. Image: RE/MAX Property Associates </img>The compact kitchenette . Image: RE/MAX Property Associates The compact kitchenette . Image: RE/MAX Property Associates </img>The en-suite bathroom could do with an update. Image: RE/MAX Property Associates The en-suite bathroom could do with an update. Image: RE/MAX Property AssociatesBaker said it is ''not the agents who dictate the price it's the buyers''. They are prepared to pay that price it's the demand...We have had a huge response to it. There are people who want to put in offers. We withdrew it from the websites yesterday because the response was so great she added.But this got people upset. If somebody sees the listing and the agent doesn't respond they get irate. They don't understand that she's probably trying to work through 200 and something odd enquiries said Baker.Manager of RE/MAX Property Associates in Cape Town' Morven Karsten said There's been a good response from people saying...it's exactly what they want they want to live there it's central .However not all enquiries were ''nice''.''Some of them had quite sharp words about it. Some of them were shocked said Karsten.- TMG Digital/The Times