But then he has days like Thursday, when Mercedes presented him with another exquisite piece of German engineering, and he is 13 years old again, his passion rekindled and his eyes fixed on nothing but the road.As the gleaming Mercedes W08, a car designed to sustain three years of Silver Arrows supremacy, was wheeled out of its Silverstone garage, Hamilton's eyes lit up."I can understand the feeling of wanting to stop and do something different," he said. "Now and again I have a thought about what I do afterwards. But then I see the car." Hamilton snr blows son's trumpet ahead of seasonOn first inspection, Mercedes' latest creation was an aesthetic and technological marvel, rejecting the ugly shark-fin design showcased by rival teams in favour of a sleeker but no less aerodynamic look, comprising an elegantly complex front wing and long sidepods set up to counter the turbulence around the gigantic rear tyres.As for the engine, the word on the grapevine is that this Mercedes V6 power plant should cause the team's nearest challengers to quake with fear. Even so, history teaches Mercedes not to be too cocksure. After all, 2017 marks a season of stark regulation changes, intended to carve up to five seconds off the average lap time through faster cornering.It is through such overhauls that Formula One dynasties tend to fall.In 2009, a drastically rewritten rule book enabled Brawn, a privateer team, to break the stranglehold of McLaren and Ferrari. Five years later, the shift from V8 to V6 engines caused a transfer of power from Red Bull to Mercedes, who have won 51 of the last 59 races."If there is such a thing as momentum, it can be disrupted by change," said Toto Wolff, Mercedes executive director. "It provides opportunity, but it also provides risk."It is a risk that the reigning triple world champions have moved quickly to mitigate by appointing James Allison, the Cambridge engineering graduate for whom they had high regard during his period at Ferrari, as technical director in place of Paddy Lowe.The other crucial difference in the dynamics at Mercedes, of course, is the replacement of Nico Rosberg, Hamilton's nemesis throughout three years of tempestuous duels, with Valtteri Bottas.Even after four years in Formula One, the 27-year-old Finn is a character who defies easy scrutiny. He is far more approachable than Mika Hakkinen or Kimi Raikkonen, his famously android-like compatriots, but resolutely unemotional on the public stage. Plus, for all the plaudits he has drawn for his performances at Williams, questions are raised by the fact that in 77 starts, he has yet to win.