From France's cr pe Suzette to Britain's crumpets, countries across the globe have their own local variants, with both savory and sweet specialties to sample. Here's a look at some of the world's different types of pancakes.Cr pe Suzette is the ultimate French pancake. Invented by Auguste Escoffier at the end of the 19th century, the cr pe Suzette shouldn't be confused just any old flamb d pancake.This French classic must be served with a sauce flavored with orange zest and a dash of Grand Marnier liquor to truly earn its name. The dish is apparently named after the young woman (Suzanne) who was dining with the future king of England, Edward VII, when he sampled the dish. Take the ingredients and technique of choux pastry and the look of the classic French cr pe and you basically have this Swedish specialty. This pancake, however, has a slightly puffier consistency and is usually served with yellow cloudberry jam. This can usually be found at a certain famous Swedish furniture store.How to make a flippen' good pancake batterA staple of the breakfast table or a great afternoon snack, crumpets are a quintessentially British speciality. The crumpet -- whose name can also be slang for a pretty girl -- is made with fresh yeast which makes the mixture rise.This gives crumpets their soft and spongy texture, as well as their characteristic holes. Crumpets can be enjoyed with marmalade or simply spread with butter. This is essentially a Japanese version of American pancakes. Unlike the US variety, Tokyoites who lay claim to the specialty use a kidney bean pur e to fill two pancakes which are then stuck together while warm. This paste is called "anko" and can easily be made at home or bought from Asian food stores.Visitors to the North African kingdom will no doubt be familiar with this specialty, which looks like homemade French cr pes at first glance. It is, however, quite different. First of all, msemen are folded on each side to form a square shape. But, more importantly, the dough is made from fine-grain semolina. This is kneaded for a long time to form a very thin film. Msemen are enjoyed with honey and a glass of steaming hot Moroccan mint tea.Among the various forms of Indian flatbreads and pancakes, dosas are a must-try. These Southern Indian pancakes are made from black eyed peas and fermented rice. They can be garnished with vegetables, ground meat, chutneys and more. There are many kinds of breads in Indian cuisine that can resemble pancakes. There are naans, of course, but paratha breads are perhaps more pancake-like still. Partha breads are a bit like puff pastry versions of chapatis, made from wholemeal wheat flour, corn flour or millet flour. They aren't cooked in the same kind of oven traditionally used to make naan breads and there's no fermentation stage with yeast when preparing the dough.Asian pancakesThis Genoan recipe is a veritable institution in Italy. Farinata is a savory pancake made from chickpea flour, water, salt and oil, which is cooked in a wood-fired oven. Each region has its own variants and preferences for Farinata, which can be eaten with pesto or gorgonzola, spread on the pancake straight from the oven. And also ...The world has a huge range of other pancakes and flatbreads for foodies to try. There's the Russian blini, the Algerian mahjouba, the Moroccan baghrir (thousand-hole cr pes), the Mexican tortilla, American pancakes, Danish ebleskivers, the Ethiopian injera and northern China's jian biang. Try some of these delectable pancake recipes: Makes: about 24Difficulty: Easy, 1 hour 30 minutesIngredients:2 cups buckwheat flour1.25ml (1/4 tsp) bicarbonate of soda2.5ml (1/2 tsp) baking powderPinch of salt3 large eggs375ml (1 cups) buttermilk5ml (1 tsp) vanilla essenceVegetable oil, for fryingMethod:1) In a large bowl, mix together the buckwheat flour, bicarbonate of soda, baking powder and salt. In a separate bowl, whisk together the eggs, buttermilk and vanilla. Slowly whisk the egg mixture into the dry ingredients, stirring until just combined. The batter should be fairly runny: if it is too thick, add a splash of water.2) Lightly coat a non-stick pan with a few drops of oil. Place a large spoonful of batter in the pan, to coat the base. Cook for about 3 minutes, turning when little air bubbles form on the edges. Cook the other side for 1-2 minutes. Remove and keep warm. Repeat for the remaining batter.3) Serve pancakes with fresh berries and honey, butter or maple syrup. - Callie Maritz &amp; Mari-Louis GuySweet berry pancake stackMakes: about 12Pancakes:240g (2 cups) cake flourPinch of salt2 extra-large eggs, beaten350ml milk30ml (2 tbsp) sunflower oil, plus a little extra for fryingFilling:3-4 leeks, finely sliced30ml (2 tbsp) butter250g baby spinach leaves, blanched2 chicken breast fillets (or 2 fish fillets), poached and cubedSauce:60g (4 tbsp) butter45ml (3 tbsp) flour375ml (1 cups) milk100g cheddar cheese, grated, plus extra for the topDash of ground nutmegSalt and pepper, to tasteMethod:1) To make the pancakes, sift the flour and salt into a large bowl. Make a well in the centre. Combine the eggs, milk and oil and pour slowly into the well, mixing with a wooden spoon until smooth. Strain through a sieve into a jug and refrigerate for 30 minutes before cooking. Preheat a non-stick 18cm pan and brush with a little oil. Pour in a little batter and swirl to coat the pan in a thin layer. When it begins to set, loosen the pancake and flip. Cook for another 30 seconds, then slide onto a plate. Repeat for the remaining batter. Place a piece of bake paper between each pancake as you stack them.2) For the filling, fry the leeks in butter till soft. Remove from the pan, combine with spinach and chicken and set aside.3) For the sauce, melt the butter in a saucepan and stir in the flour to form a roux. Add the milk and stir constantly until the sauce thickens. Stir in cheese, nutmeg, salt and pepper. Remove from the heat, stir in the leeks, spinach and chicken and adjust seasoning to taste.3) Divide the filling between the pancakes, roll up and place in a greased baking dish. Sprinkle over extra cheese, cover with foil and bake at 160 C for 20 minutes until pancakes are heated through and cheese has melted. Serve immediately with salad. - Sunday Times Food WeeklyFrench breakfast pancakes Serves: 4 - 6Ingredients:100g coconut flour10g flaxseed, groundPinch of ground cinnamonPinch of salt30ml (2 tbsp) xylitol3 large eggs50ml almond milk5ml (1 tsp) vanilla essence150ml water15ml (1 tbsp) coconut oil, for fryingMethod:1) In a bowl, combine the coconut flour, flaxseed, cinnamon, salt and xylitol.2) In a separate bowl, mix the eggs, almond milk and vanilla together.3) Combine the wet and dry ingredients and mix well. Add the water gradually, mixing continuously, until you have a thin batter (but not too runny).4) Heat coconut oil in a non-stick pan and add spoonfuls of batter to make pancakes. When bubbles appear on the surface of the pancake, flip it over and fry on the other side until cooked. Serve hot or cold. These are delicious with yoghurt, a hint of lime juice and fresh strawberries, or fresh figs and honey. - Sally-Ann Creed Ingredients:1 portion basic flapjack-style pancake batter250ml (1 cup) mashed cooked pumpkin30ml (2 tbsp) brown sugarPinch of grated nutmegPinch of ground cinnamonPinch of ground mixed spice15ml (1 tbsp) vegetable oil, for fryingCinnamon sugar and honey, to serveMethod:1) Mix the mashed pumpkin, brown sugar and spices into the pancake batter.2) Heat oil in a non-stick pan on the stove, drop in a tablespoon of batter and fry until bubbles appear on the surface. Flip and fry the other side until golden. Set aside to keep warm and repeat for remaining batter.3) Serve with cinnamon, sugar and honey. - Callie Maritz &amp; Mari-Louis Guy