Gauteng Tourism recently invited a group - this bumpkin from the village of Jane Furse, Limpopo, among them - to sample what daredevil thrills the bright lights of Gauteng have to offer - on a day of extreme escapism in Soweto. The invitation mentioned paddling on a dam, boat rides, quad biking and bungee-jumping.And thus, when the day dawned, we made our way towards the landmark now representing the sprawling township's brand worldwide - the Soweto Cooling Towers.Freedom trails: The best of SA's cultural tourist sitesWe assembled in the early summer sun on the bank of Pimville Dam, where the day's programme was to commence with the launch of paddle boats with Soweto Outdoor Adventures, owned by entrepreneur Kgomotso Pooe. After a hearty outdoor breakfast on the bank, we donned life vests and, in groups of four, were allotted almost a dozen boats to ride the width and length of the dam which is popular with anglers.The invited party shared the experience with young members of a local canoe club, who brought their canoes and skills to assist with the safety aspect of the activity, in addition to numerous families of geese paddling about with goslings in tow.Next up was quad-biking, which had us traversing the dusty area around the old power station - and through the nearby informal settlement, whose streets we toured with gas-pumping enthusiasm to the approval of the friendly locals.Back at the cooling towers, it was the moment of truth for those in our party who dared confront their fear of heights. About 20 of us assembled at the offices of the Orlando Towers Adventure Centre, where the bungee-jumping experience begins.One fetching lass in our party bowed out with the rather creative excuse that, young as she was, she still intended to benefit from whatever longevity had in store for her. The rest of us signed disclaimer forms and got buckled and strapped up, then our first batch of 10 made our way to the top of the spherical twin cooling towers. High-up, the wind blew uneasily as I wrestled with trepidation and a pounding heart.A lady in our party asked me if I fancied "going first" - just as an employee approached and asked me if I didn't mind opening the plunge fest. I followed him towards the dangling bridge, where a colleague of his, camera hanging around his person, announced his presence by performing a teasing shuffle as of a boxer - in the process causing the bridge, composed of mere netting and suspended some 300m above ground, to jiggle unstably. This stranger taunting me was the operator's official photographer, tasked with recording our souvenirs for the day.Eventually, we were at the launch area, positioned half way from either tower, whereupon a final safety check on the buckles and straps was conducted. SA attraction makes National Geographic Traveler's 'must-visit' list for 2017Soon I stood on the edge with arms stretched wide by assistants and the man who had earlier administered the final checks had his hand below my chin, restraining me from staring down as I heard voices in unison, partly advising and admonishing me: "Don't look down!"Next thing I knew and heard was, "Ayeye Jacob!" (You're in hot water now, Jacob), immediately followed by a rapid, "One! Two! Three!" Suddenly, I was prodded off the edge. I hurtled into a previously unchartered sphere, held only a bluish rope unfurling behind my head, torso and limbs - like an umbilical cord. What followed was a mental vision of obliteration as I felt the pull of the yo-yo, signalling that the cord had outstretched its length to the requisite 100m mark. Then the sideways swing effect began.Back on terra firma, scarcely believing the feat I'd just achieved, I was given a certificate of extreme valour, certifying that I, Jacob Mawela, had in fact risked life, limb and sanity by hurling my flesh, bones and spirit off the 100m high Orlando Towers, Soweto, South Africa.I capped the day by heading back to the dam's bank to join the rest of the party for sundowners as the sun set on the precinct. Share your travel experiences with us in 'Readers' World' and you could win R1,000Send your photos - at least 500KB - and a story of no more than 800 words. ALL winners receive R1,000. Only winning entrants will be contacted. E-mail travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za