The Wallabies lost five tests in a row before finishing the year with just six wins from 15. No wonder combative star flanker David Pocock feels for the Boks."It is such a hard one because world rugby has evolved and there are no easy games," said Pocock when asked how surprised he was at the Boks' return of four wins from 12 tests last year.Pocock, who is on a six-month sabbatical in southern Africa, explained that there is very little margin for error in the game's top flight. Smith on the good, the bad and the rugby"If you are off your game for 20, 30 minutes you can lose to anyone. I'm certainly not judging any teams for losing to teams you think they should beat."He was loath to comment on where the Boks went wrong, or indeed how they could reassert themselves among the game's elite. "Springbok supporters are incredibly proud of their team, their success. It will be a tough position to be in I'm sure."In Australian rugby we've had a tough year as well. Both teams will be looking to learn from the last 12 months."He shed some light on the Wallabies' plight."I think we had over a dozen players making their debut last year. That is tough learning. It does take a while to take that next step as a player. Hopefully, we are better for the experience. Time will tell."With the once-easy beats now putting up a fight, Pocock believes the game's global appeal can only benefit."I think one of the things that sets rugby apart, and it is only getting better, is how truly international it is. Teams like Japan are on the rise; teams like the USA, particularly in the Sevens, are helping the growth in America."As a rugby player, the more teams that are up there and competing for the World Cup, the better. It is probably the same for viewers."In the 2015 World Cup, where we had that pool of death almost every game was incredibly tough. That is probably what a World Cup should be," said Pocock.Pocock is taking time out to engage in one of his favourite pursuits. Being in and feeling close to nature. Spending time in the bush comes naturally to the Zimbabwe-born son of a farmer."I've got a real love of nature," he said from near Hoedspruit. "I feel that it is incredibly important to raise awareness and give people opportunities to connect with nature. On some level we all have that deep connection around nature where you feel more at peace."That's really important in a world that is becoming more and more connected with all your devices. We may be connected one way through that, but we disconnect from each other and from nature because there is always something else to do."Part of what Pocock will be doing over the coming months involves eco-training. "It is an incredible opportunity to do some immersive learning, spending time in the bush and learning about the ecology."I'm an ambassador for WildArk so that is what brings me here. They've recently acquired some land and that's going to open up into the greater Kruger once it is ready." French are getting better, Laidlaw warnsPocock is thoughtful, erudite and dreams of a better world. He is not scared to attach himself to causes. He's an activist for marriage equality and chained himself to a digger during a coal mine protest in 2015.His views on wildlife poaching are considered and balanced. "It is such a complex issue. Wildlife and the natural world means different things to different people. There are competing worldviews and attitudes and what conservation should be about, and what should be prioritised."Part of the next few months is about trying to learn more. Visit different places that are trying different things like community conservation."I've been involved in some community development work in Zimbabwe for the past eight or nine years."Ultimately, if we can't find a way for wild-life areas to provide for the needs of people who live in those areas in terms of jobs, income, security, I think it is going to be very hard to conserve the species. If you look at the statistics, it is fairly confronting, the state of affairs."Pocock will return to the Panasonic Wild Knights in Japan in August before joining the Brumbies for next year's Super Rugby season. Then the 2019 World Cup beckons.He admits, however, when he ran the idea past Australian rugby bosses there was mixed reaction."Thankfully, we worked out a plan that works for everybody."sports@timesmedia.co.za