How often do you travel?These days, probably about twice a month. Certainly every month I'm travelling somewhere.Describe the first holiday you remember as a childThe average black person didn't go on holiday when I was a kid - I don't remember going on holiday or going to the beach. But we did sometimes take the Blue Line bus to visit my grandmother. They went from Cape Town to Mthatha.Comedian Alan Committie on why the best hotels have the simplest plumbingI remember a great deal of excitement, going to experience something new, packing the lunches . I still get that excitement when I go to London because I love the city. I get it just thinking about places I've never been to. Tell us about your first trip abroad, into the rest of africa or beyond?It was to London and I left my passport on the plane. I was 23 years old and was amazed that the alcohol [on planes] was free. So I got hammered and was still hammered when I got to immigration - without my passport.By the time I got back to the gate, the plane had left for Bombay. So I entered the country without the correct paperwork. And there was a lot more to come - it was quite a process getting a new passport.What was the most adventurous destination you have ever been to?Istanbul or Hong Kong. In Istanbul, I walked down the ancient streets, looking at the architecture and the old men drinking coffee and realised we don't live alone. And Hong Kong was a perfect mix of the East and West. I just like that. What is the best way to travel once you're abroad?It depends on how well I know the city. In New York, I take the trains - the traffic is jam-packed - but at night I use Uber. And in Buenos Aires, I used Uber because I don't know the place or the language. What are your favourite cities here or abroad?New York City and London. London because seven months of the year you have access to the best football. New York and London also have the best comedy scenes in the world.</img>New York yellow cabs in front of the Flatiron Building. Image: iStock New York yellow cabs in front of the Flatiron Building. Image: iStock Do you prefer roughing it or luxury when travelling?I used to use hotels when I travelled; now I do Airbnb and I mix it up. If I'm travelling for a gig it's important to be comfortable but if I'm on holiday I try to be as low-end as possible. It's a waste of money to rent a high-end place if you're spending all your time exploring.What has been your worst travel experience?I don't see the world in terms of "worst" - that's not how my brain is wired. If I'm able to go to another place, it can't be a bad experience, not when 80% of people don't have the same privilege.Your best piece of travel advice?Don't wear jeans when you fly, wear shorts or tracksuit pants. Be as comfortable as possible. I see people travelling in high heels - what? Also, always have a moonbag and don't travel with a laptop that you have to keep taking out of its bag all the time.As for destinations, don't read up about the place before you go - it ruins the experience. You should go to a place with zero expectations - the idea is to experience new things. Just go.Why SA is one of superstar Laura Mvula's favourite places What do you hate about travelling or holidays?What pisses me off is going to Lesotho. You have to be at the airport two hours before flying because it's an international flight, then you fly for 30 minutes. Someone actually raced the flight by driving to Lesotho. I think the driver won.What elements - destination, people, attractions etc - make up your perfect holiday?The idea of learning. I recently went to Argentina. It wasn't the best holiday but I learnt so much about economics. They didn't import for 15 years, they made everything themselves. That did wonders for the economy.Someone also snatched food from my plate and ran off. There were no black people, only poor white people and it changed my perception of race. In South Africa, they'll steal your watch or your phone - imagine how poor you have to be to steal food. It made me realise that everything has a degree of complexity.Name one place you really want to go, now or at least some day.Morocco. I don't know why - I'm just interested to know what's going on in Marrakech.Next year I'd also like to go see the US Open and Wimbledon, some NBA games, a Formula One race - maybe the Malaysian Grand Prix - and football, like [Turkish squads] Fenerbah e against Galatasaray. Next year, the main purpose of my travels will be sports.