Speaking after the chaotic scenes in parliament on Thursday, Mokonyane, the minister of water and sanitation, said she would demand that Mthembu explain why he had failed to convene a meeting of the ANC caucus prior to the state of the nation address. Party MPs should have discussed in advance how to counter the EFF, whose disruptive actions had been expected.Several other MPs who asked not to be named for fear of reprisals also criticised Mthembu for not convening the caucus prior to the sitting, during which there were fist fights in the National Assembly.In an interview, Mokonyane said the ANC caucus should no longer allow the EFF a "free run" in parliament. It should ensure that it was ready to deal with the EFF challenge during the debate this week on the state of the nation address.'Zuma ministers' want Treasury to 'share the cake'"It's a pity there was no caucus [before Thursday's speech]. I hope there will be a caucus before the debate. We do hope we will get an explanation," she said.An ANC insider said that since the arrival of the EFF in parliament, the ruling party caucus had usually made a point of holding a planning meeting ahead of the state of the nation address.Mokonyane also suggested that National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces chairwoman Thandi Modise had been inconsistent in their application of parliamentary rules on Thursday."Firstly stick to the rules ... What bothers me is that [COPE MP] Willie Madisha spoke for less than two minutes but his microphone was switched off."Others actually spent more than 60 minutes and were allowed to run without their microphones being switched off," she said.Mthembu, who has been openly critical of Zuma in recent months and has called on him to quit, confirmed that he had not convened the now-customary caucus meeting."I don't think that I will respond to this because at the moment it will be hearsay," he said. "Indeed there was no caucus, but that is something we'll be able to explain [to MPs]."ANC MPs sympathetic to Mthembu said Zuma supporters were trying to force him out of the chief whip post.</img>Empty seats in the National Assembly on Thursday after EFF MPs were expelled and DA members walked out before the state of the nation address. Image: ESA ALEXANDEREmpty seats in the National Assembly on Thursday after EFF MPs were expelled and DA members walked out before the state of the nation address. Image: ESA ALEXANDERThey said certain members of cabinet were not happy at the tough line some portfolio committees had taken against government departments during Mthembu's tenure.One said holding a caucus meeting would not have helped anyway. "That's an unfair attack, there's no way you could work on the basis of tactics of different political parties."