</img>SEW IT GOES: Chantal Nsunda was born in Angola but moved to the Democratic Republic of Congo when she was a young girl. She left the DRC for South Africa 19 years ago and now runs a successful dress-making business in Yeoville, Johannesburg. Image: James OatwaySEW IT GOES: Chantal Nsunda was born in Angola but moved to the Democratic Republic of Congo when she was a young girl. She left the DRC for South Africa 19 years ago and now runs a successful dress-making business in Yeoville, Johannesburg. Image: James Oatway</img>NO ESCAPE: Getachew Sugebo left Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to escape ethnic violence. He has been in South Africa for 12 years and has had his shop broken into many times during outbreaks of xenophobic violence. Image: James OatwayNO ESCAPE: Getachew Sugebo left Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to escape ethnic violence. He has been in South Africa for 12 years and has had his shop broken into many times during outbreaks of xenophobic violence. Image: James Oatway</img>CLIMBING TO THE TOP: Alexis Onene, 35, is an award-winning professional drummer and singer with the stage name Yulele. From Ivory Coast, he travelled to South Africa five years ago to make a name for himself. Image: James OatwayCLIMBING TO THE TOP: Alexis Onene, 35, is an award-winning professional drummer and singer with the stage name Yulele. From Ivory Coast, he travelled to South Africa five years ago to make a name for himself. Image: James Oatway</img>SECOND LIFE: Cyprian Ejike Ikani, 38, left Delta State, Nigeria, 10 years ago in search of a better life. Image: James OatwaySECOND LIFE: Cyprian Ejike Ikani, 38, left Delta State, Nigeria, 10 years ago in search of a better life. Image: James Oatway</img>SONG TO SING: Jaafar Yuusuf Mohamed, 25, is from Gidami, Ethiopia. His music highlights injustices against his tribe. Image: James OatwaySONG TO SING: Jaafar Yuusuf Mohamed, 25, is from Gidami, Ethiopia. His music highlights injustices against his tribe. Image: James Oatway</img>FORCED TO FLEE: Adnaan Yassin Abdullahi, 31, is from Gelemso in Ethiopia. He was active in student protests against the Ethiopian government and fled the country following army clampdowns. He now runs a restaurant in Mayfair, Johannesburg. Image: James OatwayFORCED TO FLEE: Adnaan Yassin Abdullahi, 31, is from Gelemso in Ethiopia. He was active in student protests against the Ethiopian government and fled the country following army clampdowns. He now runs a restaurant in Mayfair, Johannesburg. Image: James Oatway