At the same time the reduction in the proposed tax from 20% on all sugary drinks to 11% has sugar tax supporters disappointed.Beverage SA executive director Mapule Ncanywa welcomed the promise of more collaboration. Budget 2017: 'Harsh times ahead' says Geffen We believe that through collaboration with all the relevant role players we can find ways to create a win-win for all South Africans contribute positively to health outcomes and avoid any job losses. The beverage industry also said they will be creating more sugar-free drinks and reducing the calories in sugary drinks in response to calls for the tax. Budget 2017 commentary: 'Gordhan should be praised'The drink industry also wants another study on what South Africans eat and drink to prove sugary drinks should be targeted with a tax. Gordhan confirmed 100% fruit juice would be included even though this was left out of last's year proposal for a sugar tax in the 2016 budget speech.The Healthy Living Alliance that represents academics and those interested in the tax said it was pleased Gordhan has said the tax would be implemented in a year. Budget 2017 commentary: 'Much stronger economic growth needed to counter rising government debt'But it was disappointed that the tax was lower and says it may not work.The alliance said: "The proposed level of taxation has been reduced significantly and it might not be sufficiently high to deter consumption of these drinks. It appears from the Budget Review that the tax will be in the region of 11% instead of the 20% tax rate based on a 330ml can proposed in Treasury s policy paper. Alliance coordinator Tracey Malawana said: While there is no silver bullet that will slim down the nation cutting sugar consumption is a non-negotiable public health measure. Sugary drinks are a major contributor to excessive sugar intake. Discovery Vitality welcomed the tax announcement. Dr Craig Nossel Head of Vitality Wellness said: We believe that action is required to reduce the intake of sugary drinks and support the proposed sugar tax. From a health point of view it is excellent news that sugar content will remain the base on which the tax is applied as this encourages reformulation and the availability of drinks with a lower sugar content."