Decades ago the Rand Club in Joburg's CBD made a very fine Avo Ritz. It may, in fact, have been the only thing that was in any way magnificent (and on some days passable) on the menu. For a few years, a good mulligatawny soup featured too. Avo Ritz is, I don't need to tell you, much scorned nowadays.Some retro dishes have been considered (in an annoying, ironic way) cool at certain points, but the Ritz has never had that sort of moment in the sun. It's a shame because an Avo Ritz made with care is nothing to mock. Many old-time local chefs swear that its creation - which simply involved replacing the lettuce in a prawn cocktail with avo - was a South African tweak. I haven't yet found anything to formally contradict this (or to confirm it), but whatever the truth, it's a huge improvement on the prawn cocktail, simply because avo is what the seafood and sauce were begging for all along. Many old-time local chefs swear that Avocado Ritz's creation - which simply involved replacing the lettuce in a prawn cocktail with avo - was a South African tweak If we're going to be making Avo Ritz in 2017 though, it needs one modification. Quite a major one: the prawns need to go. Regular readers of this column will already be aware of the huge un-coolness, the total non-viability, of continuing to eat prawns, whether wild-caught or farmed. The environmental issues, including the bizarrely high by-catch of everything from turtles to marine birds, plus obscene levels of marine pollution, plus in some cases really horrible labour practices, should simply make the critters stick in our gullets.Yes, I know, I'm asking you to take the Ritz out of the dish. But in fact, it's the combination of avo and pink sauce which really makes this dish sing and, if we're honest, the prawns are generally flaccid, mealy little apologies for seafood.So what to use? A firm white fish, poached or grilled, works well, and monkfish is especially good at playing the role of prawn in the dish. Yes, you can eat abalone with a clear conscienceAs for the pink sauce, it has a real name: Marie Rose. A well balanced Marie Rose is a damn nice thing, there's no pretending it isn't. Just make sure to use a not too trashy (ie massively acidic and/or watery) mayonnaise.Of the thousand and one versions of the sauce, here is the one I like best. It's pretty much the original, though even that is in dispute.This makes enough Marie Rose for 4 servings of Avo Ritz: 8 tablespoons good mayonnaise (not too acid) / 1 tablespoon tomato sauce / 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce / Tabasco to taste / 2 teaspoons lemon juice. Mix it all together with a whisk.Dollop in unsubtle amounts over sliced avocado and white fish (still slightly warm is nice). Good with beer or pink champagne. This article was originally published in The Times.