In the build-up, the ANC released a list of 12 tasks for implementing its programme of radical economic transformation.Included was adhering to the Maputo declaration of 2003 to raise state agriculture spending to 10% of the national budget; forcing the government to spend 30% of its budget on small enterprises and black business; deracialising and diversifying ownership patterns in financial services and mining; investing in township economies; returning the land to the people; finalising the minimum wage; and reviewing trade policies to support local businesses.The state of the economy makes the realisation of the 12 tasks rather ambitious. Upbeat chatter deflated by inflationAchieving the target in accordance with the Maputo declaration of spending 10% of GDP on agriculture would have provided a significant victory in the battle against poverty. Unfortunately, South Africa spends less than 1% of GDP on this sector.To make the Maputo declaration a reality in the short term, there would have to be a massive shift in spending patterns by the state towards agriculture. Faced with competing interests I do not imagine this will be achieved within the medium-term budgeting cycle.The president was also explicit in saying that the government will from now on use all the strategic levers at its disposal to drive economic transformation. An example is the recently gazetted set of regulations compelling big contractors to subcontract 30% of state business to small and black-owned enterprises.Financial and operational capacity of black businesses and small enterprises to deliver remains a massive block to implementation. The performance of developmental funding institutions, the government and the private sector needs to improve significantly to provide support.The state of the nation address was delivered just after the Mining Indaba, where the gulf in policy direction between the state and mining companies was yet again the focus. The ANC economic plan calls for deracialisation of the ownership patterns in mining. The current battle between the industry and the government over the principle of "once empowered, always empowered" is the key standoff.It is reasonable to expect that the final Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act will express the intentions of the ANC and declare that the notion of "once empowered, always empowered" is illogical. Of course, that depends entirely on the ANC.The industry will therefore have to find ways of initiating new empowerment transactions to remain in compliance with the directive to diversify ownership patterns. How this will affect investment flows remains to be seen. For now, the government holds the cards as it could suspend operating licences of noncompliant mining companies.The other glaring point of contention in the industry is the mining charter. The president reiterated that the charter is specifically seeking to adopt the internationally accepted right of the state to exercise sovereignty over all mineral resources. This would represent the most radical economic initiative ever undertaken by the democratic government. Economic apartheid still writ largeThe president did not directly address the issue of ownership patterns in the banking sector, which is a shame. Instead, he referred to Employment Equity Commission indicators showing that 23 years into our democracy 72% of top management positions are still held by white people and just 10% by Africans.The consequences of such skewed racial patterns in economic participation have resulted in white households earning up to five times more than black households. Such patterns are simply not sustainable economically or socially. The recent finalisation of the national minimum wage agreement of R3500 showed the benefits of collaboration and negotiation across business, government and labour. Such practices should be encouraged to ensure initiatives for radical transformation bear fruit.Of all the tasks, the most delicate concerns the land question. The enforced absence of the Economic Freedom Fighters from parliament during the state of the nation address was unfortunate as the president echoed their views. So far, less than 10% of arable land has been transferred to black people, short of the 30% target the ANC has set. The pace of land reform has simply been inadequate.The president once again stated that the land problem remains central to reconciliation in South Africa. The big problem is that the state's only instruments for implementation - expropriation and restitution legislation - are paralysed by judicial and legislative hurdles. The expropriation legislation was not signed off by the president as its public consultation process was legally invalid. The mechanics of the consultation process make it unlikely the bill will be passed before the end of 2017. The Restitution of Land Rights Act was the subject of a scathing judgment by the Constitutional Court in 2016.The act itself has proved ineffective. The government has the power to legislate firmer laws that will drive "radical economic transformation". All it needs now is the will to do so.Khumalo is chief investment officer of MSG Afrika Group and presents "Power Business" on Power98.7 at 5pm, Monday to Thursday