A Sunday Times source, with an intimate knowledge and close understanding of how the 48-year-old coach works, says he has the aptitude to steer the Bucs ship away from the stormy seas."He does not tolerate players who do not pull their weight. He wants the best out of you. He doesn't tolerate any nonsense."With him it is either you shape up or ship out. He builds a tight group ," said the source. United legend Yorke denied entry to USIt is a description befitting a man with the capability to rid Pirates of the eight match winless rot (before last night's clash with Cape Town City) that has become the signature of the Sea Robbers lately.During his time at KRC Genk in Belgium, Van Geneugden - who learnt the ropes under the tutelage of Dutchman Louis van Gaal - once chased away a player for arriving late.He told him to go run in the bush next to Genk's training ground and think about his career."I spoke to him this week. He said his agent is speaking to Pirates. The conversation has been ongoing," the source said.He is delighted by the prospect of joining Pirates, an assignment which will be his first in Africa."His philosophy of football will suit Pirates. He likes his players playing with the ball at their feet."He is capable. He likes to work with youngsters. He gives them chances. He spent many years working as a trainer-coach in the reserves of Genk."Youngsters who have gone through Van Geneugden's hands at youth and professional levels at Genk include his countrymen Kevin de Bruyne of Manchester City, Chelsea goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois and Christian Benteke. The trio are in the Belgian national team.He also worked with the South African duo of former Bafana Bafana captain Aaron Mokoena and Anele Ngcongca, who joined Mamelodi Sundowns late last year.As a player, he was a left-footed attacking midfielder who developed a reputation as a good free-kick taker. When the Sunday Times contacted his Spanish intermediary, Antonio Carlo Cabrera, he pleaded with the newspaper not to jeopardise his client's chances."I am not in a position to talk. We are still considering. Nothing has happened. The only thing I will ask you is to write nothing at all about my coach."If you write something about my coach, you will jeopardise his chances. We will see what happens. Call me maybe on Sunday."When this journalist pointed out to Cabrera that this newspaper comes out on Sunday, he responded: "We are not allowed to talk. If we talk it jeopardises our chances."He credited his client for being the brains behind Genk Vision. Wenger prepares for life after Arsenal"Ronny was the coach who made the project of Genk Vision. He was the creator of the current system of the youth teams in the club. He was the man who ran the system and oversaw the project," Cabrera said."A lot of African players have been involved with Genk. He has no problem dealing with African players," was Cabrera's response when asked about Van Geneugden's knowledge of the African game.Ngcongca was not available for comment. He was in camp with Sundowns who took on TP Mazembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo in the Confederation of African Football (Caf) Super Cup clash at Loftus Stadium last night.The Super Cup pits the Caf Champions League victors (Sundowns) against the Caf Confederation Cup winners in a once-off final hosted by the Champions League winners.A host of coaches have been linked to the Pirates job. They include Italian Giovanni Solanis and Belgian Luc Eymael.Former Bucs players Benni McCarthy and Clinton Larsen have also been touted as possible replacements for Muhsin Ertgural.On Monday, Pirates chairman Irvin Khoza confirmed that he will announce the club's new coach tomorrow.bbk@sundaytimes.co.za