When?March 18What not to miss?Festivities along the Green Point Fan Walk kick off at 3pm where they'll be an array of eats, drinks and trinkets for sale. The parade itself a spectacle of incredible floats and extravagant costumes starts at 7pm.Don't miss American superstar Oshri performing this year s theme song. Local DJs Fresh and Euphonic will also be entertaining the crowds from their perch atop a gigantic sea-urchin-shaped float.Entry to the parade area is free, but you can buy tickets for seated areas along the route.What to wear?This year's theme is "AMAZA Ocean Odyssey". Costume-wise, think sea creatures, mermaids, fishermen and surfers.</img>The Cape Town Carnival is the country s pre-eminent street parade. Image: SuppliedThe Cape Town Carnival is the country s pre-eminent street parade. Image: SuppliedWhen?Until February 28What not to miss?Festivities culminate on the last day of the carnival, February 28. Head to Saint Mark's Square to see the Maria of the Carnival ceremony, then watch the Flight of the Lion. This tradition involves sending a huge Venice flag sailing over Saint Mark's Square from the bell tower above.What to wear?To experience the Venice carnival is to step out in one of the famous masks for which the carnival is renowned although there's no obligation!Private lessons held in the Italian city teach the Venetian art of paper mache mask-making. Otherwise, masks can be bought or rented from various stores. Look out for the famous long-nosed mask, the Colombina half-mask or Burano lace masks.</img>Venice kicked off its famous carnival on the Cannaregio canal on February 18. Image: MARCO BERTORELLO/AFP Venice kicked off its famous carnival on the Cannaregio canal on February 18. Image: MARCO BERTORELLO/AFP When?There are several stages to the Cologne Carnival, including the Women's Carnival Day on February 23, Rose Monday on February 27 and Ash Wednesday on March 1.What not to miss?The high point of Cologne Carnival is Rose Monday, with a parade starting from 10am. A million spectators in fancy dress are showered with sweets, small bouquets of flowers and pecks on the cheek.What to wear?There's no set theme to Cologne Carnival. All of the wackiest ideas are welcome, with carnival-goers slipping into costume as anything from clowns to pirates and more. Traditionally, it's good form to make your costume yourself.</img>Clowns celebrate Rose Monday at the Cologne Carnival. Image: PATRIK STOLLARZ/AFPClowns celebrate Rose Monday at the Cologne Carnival. Image: PATRIK STOLLARZ/AFPWhen?February 24 to 28What not to miss?The Rio Carnival is celebrated throughout the city streets, but for the full experience head to the Sambodrome to watch the Samba Parades. Ticket-holders can grab a seat and enjoy the show or, better yet, you can opt to take part in a parade.What to wear?If you've decided to strut your stuff in the Samba Parade you'll need to order a costume to match that of the dancers you'll be partying alongside.</img>Samba school "Unidos da Tijuca" parading at the Rio de Janeiro Carnival in 2016. Image: YASUYOSHI CHIBA/AFPSamba school "Unidos da Tijuca" parading at the Rio de Janeiro Carnival in 2016. Image: YASUYOSHI CHIBA/AFPWhen?The UK's Summer Bank Holiday weekend, usually the last weekend of August. This year it falls August 27 and 28.What not to miss?The Notting Hill Carnival is distinctly Caribbean in flavor. Some consider it Europe's equivalent to the Rio Carnival, although the Santa Cruz de Tenerife Carnival, in Spain's Canary Islands, is also a colorful affair.The biggest parade closes the carnival on Bank Holiday Monday, a public holiday in the UK. The sound of steel drums, soca and calypso create a vibrant, electric atmosphere, fragranced with the aromas of Caribbean cuisine.What to wear?Feathers and sequins take to the city streets for Monday's parade. Carnival-goers can take inspiration from the elaborate costumes and dress up for the occasion. Make sure you wear comfortable shoes since the parade runs from 10am to 8:30pm, then the party continues in all corners of West London.</img>Samba school "Unidos da Tijuca" parading at the Rio de Janeiro Carnival in 2016. Image: YASUYOSHI CHIBA/AFPSamba school "Unidos da Tijuca" parading at the Rio de Janeiro Carnival in 2016. Image: YASUYOSHI CHIBA/AFP Additional reporting by TMG Digital.