While we busy ourselves chasing career success, bigger bank accounts, slimmer bodies and more gratifying relationships, somehow that bright, elusive butterfly, happiness, remains beyond our grasp.At a holistic wellness retreat in Sabie recently, there was a guest speaker who had an enlightening perspective to share.Aliya B Haeri is a US-born, Pretoria-based psychologist and life coach with a fine history of academic study and a lifelong quest for knowledge through the teachings of Islam and Sufism. Through these, she has developed an empowering philosophy of personal development.If you're happy & you know it these are probably your 5 secretsThe idea of happiness, Haeri argues, has been completely inverted in the modern age. All the things we hanker for - prestige, health, wealth and love - are a by-product of happiness, not the source.So how to be happy then?Haeri believes we already know. We were born happy: "The ancient sages of all universal traditions agree that joy is our natural state."Think of babies, who delight in the curling of their own toes. That was all of us, once. But as we grow up in the world, acquiring desires, fears and anxieties, we forget this.As children, we learn to be nice, nasty, indifferent or play the victim in order to get our way. As these tactics become entrenched habits, we become more and more estranged from our true, happy nature. Recovering it is a matter of simply recognising this and disowning the distractions that distance us. 1) Accept and let goAccept the present moment exactly as it is without blame or judgment. Take the time to identify and label your feelings as they arise. It's not that we are angry or scared or anxious; we just have anger or fear or anxiety. Our emotions are not our selves. They arise in our minds but they can also leave.To witness them is to separate yourself from them and so make them easier to handle. It's also helpful to express them to another, a trusted friend, or release them in some ritual: write a letter and burn it. The image of symbolically letting go will stay with you.</img>Psychologist and life coach Aliya B Haeri. Image: SuppliedPsychologist and life coach Aliya B Haeri. Image: Supplied2) Live with true intentionTake responsibility for what is happening in your life. You may not have caused the situation but you decide how to respond. We make choices at every moment, so consciously set your intention to act not from your learnt habits but from the part of you that is already at peace. As you practise this, even your language will change. Things no longer happen to you, they present themselves as opportunities. Be open to the possibility the universe knows more than you do.3) Take care of your bodyThis is the vehicle that carries your core consciousness through life so be grateful for it and respectful of it. Pay attention to your breath, drink water (which purifies), eat nourishing foods and get enough sleep.Of course, exercise is crucial not only for your body's health but also because exertion is a tool for releasing emotions, which are like packets of energy that we keep in our bodies. Anger, for instance, is the emotion of the age. Many people try to suppress it but, like a beach ball pushed under water, it will out. Exercise is a healthy way to release it. Find something that works for you.4) Strip away the noiseIn the case of actual stuff, cluttered living feeds cluttered thinking. Look at your surroundings and ask yourself, "What do I no longer need?" Think of the world as a playground rather than an obstacle course and open your space for new opportunities. 5) Keep an open heart no matter what happens in your lifeThe day-to-day details do have a place but all of it passes away. True happiness is in moments when we allow our minds to empty of noise. This is the aim of practices such as yoga and meditation, and there are other ways too. Walks in nature, attention to one's breath, losing oneself in the beauty of art or a leaf on the vine can open us to the stillness within.Practise the mantra "No matter what, I will not give up my joy about being alive."None of this will come naturally at first, and such peace is not a state you can stay in all the time, but work on returning to it more often than not. Over time, it can become second nature.The cynics among us will surely scoff. Ja, but happiness can't buy me money - or fame or chicks. For you, Haeri still has a kicker. When we are in a happy state, she says, we bring forth our better selves. Starting with happiness will attract the things you think will make you happy.Even if they don't, by that point you might not even care about them any more - either way it's worth a shot. Haeri consults in Pretoria and on Skype. Go to aliya-haeri.com. She was a speaker at the Integrated Wellness retreat at Ligna Lodge in Sabie. For future retreats, see yogawena.co.za or call Shameen Yacoob on 083-785-5695