When Mangosuthu Buthelezi told delegates at his party's elective conference in Ulundi in 2013 that he might not see out his full term as president, many believed Inkosi Mzamo Buthelezi was in line to succeed him after being unanimously elected as his second-in-command.The veteran IFP leader sang his deputy's praises at the time, saying he was looking forward to working with someone from his clan. It was the first time since the founding of the IFP more than four decades ago that it had amended its constitution to create the position of deputy president - which fell into the hands of another Buthelezi.But the Sunday Times has established that Mzamo is no longer the heir apparent and has fallen out of favour with his boss. Insiders say the IFP leader now prefers former youth brigade leader Thulasizwe Buthelezi to take over from him. But it is believed Thulasizwe has turned down the offer. Tension between Trollip and Bobani threatens to collapse PE coalitionPrevious succession battles have turned ugly, with those who showed ambition being pushed out. Two former leaders of the IFP Ziba Jiyane and Zanele kaMagwaza-Msibi left to form their own organisations after falling out with the former home affairs minister. Mangosuthu Buthelezi reacted angrily when asked for comment this week, saying he would not discuss internal party matters with the media . "And I must express my surprise at this sudden interest that you and the Sunday Times have in the IFP. I do not remember even once when you have sought our views in all matters that comprise our national discourse ." The lifetime leader of the IFP is reportedly unhappy with how Mzamo is running Zululand district municipality, where he has been mayor since August.The man at the centre of the feud is believed to be Sipho Nkosi, who was appointed acting municipal manager without Mangosuthu Buthelezi's approval. In an apparent swipe at the mayor, Mangosuthu Buthelezi told supporters during the party's electoral victory celebration in Hlabisa last month that it was "a tragedy that the Zululand district municipality is in our hands only in name. The disloyalty of our members has resulted in the Zululand district being in the hands of our enemies." He added that the party would never allow "money or positions to divide us, as has happened in the Zululand district municipality".Mangosuthu Buthelezi said that it was not uncommon for the party to discuss senior municipal appointments. Two independent sources said this falling out meant there was "no way" the mayor would get the party's top post. Mzamo and Thulasizwe declined to comment.