Our British Airways plane landed smoothly in St Petersburg. Little did we expect the surly reception awaiting us.The immigration clerk would have done superbly as a Gulag labour-camp superintendent in the 1960s - formidable, impassive and obviously expecting us to be either illegal refugees or filthy capitalists coming to laud it over the poverty-stricken locals.Europe's 25 cheapest destinations according to AirbnbFortunately, once through there, we looked up to see the warm, welcoming signboard of Peter the Great Tours, held aloft by a pair of gorgeous, long blonde-haired Russian tennis player clones, part of the team looking after us on our two-week cruise to Moscow.The first question my history-fanatical husband asked was, "What was it really like living under Communism?" "How old do you think we are?" came the cheerful reply. Quick mental calculations told us they had scarcely been born when the system had come to an end. They did admit, however, that their parents, who had been expecting a state pension after a lifetime of service to the state, had been left penniless, and had had to live with one of their unmarried children in a one bedroomed flat. At breakfast on the boat each day, we were urged to partake of vodka tipped up from a large bottle. I tried it once, but decided I didn't need to emulate this Russian "fuelling" habit - my stomach had obviously not had the right upbringing.On board we were entertained in the early evenings by a wonderful trio of piano, accordion and balalaika players, with selections of classical and film-score compositions. The artistes were friendly and seemed to thoroughly enjoy playing for us. What surprised me was the rapture with which the young guides listened to these local and foreign renditions - no sign of hankering after pop music more suited to their age.After supper most nights, we could choose to attend Russian language, cooking, dance or history lessons. Although we later didn't have much acquired skill to show for them, they were all most enjoyable. Drinks were expensive, so we had a nightly locally bought vodka with a delightful New Zealand couple we had befriended - one of us staying in the cabin to pass the toothmugs through the porthole to the others on the deck.Moscow exhibited huge slabs of grey, featureless apartment buildings. We were treated to a one-stop ride on the underground, with inspiring paintings on the station walls commemorating the Russian Revolution. On board, I was readying myself to cling to an overhead ring when a young man rose to offer me his seat. Despite my protestations, he insisted, and I sat down. Then started the mental anguish of what the Russian word for "thank you" was. Striking a complete blank, I settled for the English version. To my great surprise, he replied "You're welcome!" Accidental Tourist: My rickety Russian rocket ride On a visit to the Kremlin, after admiring the Faberg eggs, I leant gently against a post on the edge of the pavement. Immediately I was accosted by a security guard, who saw this as distinctly threatening behaviour. In the city itself, my husband once indicated to the lady in charge of the porta-loos that he needed to use one. She sternly opened the door of one, pulled out a patron who was using it, and gestured to my husband to enter. Halfway through the process, she opened the door and energetically mopped the floor while he was still occupied. Share your travel experiences with us in 'Readers' World' and you could win R1,000Send your photos - at least 500KB - and a story of no more than 800 words. ALL winners receive R1,000. Only winning entrants will be contacted. E-mail travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za