Niel Marais and Fred Zeilinga had different but important roles they fulfilled in helping the Cheetahs procure their first Currie Cup title in nine years with their win over the Bulls in Bloemfontein last year.Currie Cup success has not always translated into something meaningful in Super Rugby recently.The Lions bucked the trend with their stupendous run by reaching the final last year after their 2015 Currie Cup triumph, but Smith knows his Cheetahs may have to take a different path. French are getting better, Laidlaw warns"There's a positive and a negative spin to Currie Cup success. The Lions set the bar high by kicking on from their Super Rugby success and that's also our aim as well."It could be a burden in the sense there'll be expectation and the pressure of having to perform can get to players. We haven't had the best of Super Rugby seasons recently and that pressure sometimes limits creativity and performance. That I think will be my main challenge as coach."I guess it'll be about controlling the controllables like selections," Smith said."We've developed Niel and Fred very nicely over time but it's going to be important to use them differently in specific games because they have their different strengths because that'll help with a bit of variation in our game. Having both of them will be a necessity in what will be a very tough season. I also do think Fred has gained enough experience now."What the Currie Cup did give Smith was the benefit of continuity and pleasant selection headaches in key positions.With options like Nico Lee, Francois Venter, William Small-Smith and Ryno Benjamin, Smith has an assortment of potential riches in midfield.The same applies in the loose-forward area where Uzair Caseem, Teboho "Oupa" Mohoje and Henco Venter are his prime predators.He will be without the services of crackerjack fetcher Heinrich Brussow, who has seemingly turned his back on South African rugby, but the show has to go on. NOW FOR THE BIG GAMEThese are the conundrums Smith is faced with but he already seems to have a plan of how he will go about using his prized assets.Whether he finds a way to utilise all of them remains to be seen when the Cheetahs open their 2017 Super Rugby against the Lions at home on February 25."I won't be using Uzair as a No8 but you have to remember the game has evolved to a point where players need to be multi-skilled and can be used in different positions."It's not about the number on your back, you have to be able to equip players to function in most roles. If you're a loose-forward, you must have the qualities to succeed in all positions. You may have different ways of putting your head in the scrum but there's the same manner when you apply yourself physically," Smith said."I think it's very important to have a lot of depth and I think in midfield we are spoilt in that regard. Francois does pick himself so I think it'll be a case of who partners him and how his form is looking."The same goes for the back three where Sergeal Petersen, Clayton Blommetjies and Raymond Rhule also make life very easy. It'll be about the consistency."