He wrote two magisterial books about South Africa's most notorious conman and his corporate backers, Brett Kebble: The Inside Story (2006) and The Kebble Collusion (2012).In the latter he claimed that Investec and KPMG covered up what he called the world's largest unprosecuted fraud, which he calculated by 2012 amounted to R26-billion.He claimed the two helped Kebble steal R1.9-billion in Randgold &amp; Exploration shares and then actively covered up their involvement to frustrate potential lawsuits after Kebble's death in 2005.Sergeant wrote that Kebble used the cash to keep his business empire, particularly the gold-mining company JCI, afloat, and to fund his lavish lifestyle, which was costing R5-million a month to sustain.According to Sergeant, Investec and KPMG, alongside other corporate advisers and companies, extracted another R400-million out of the shells of Randgold and JCI and worked to cover up the truth of their involvement in Kebble's other financial scandals, which emerged only after his death.He accused Investec of money laundering. Investec's greatest crime he believed was impeding Randgold minorities from pursuing their claims by effectively controlling the boards of JCI and Randgold, the thief and the victim so to speak.Their founding statement was filed in 2011 and, six years and R20-million later, they're still battling to get what was stolen from them.The Kebble Collusion sold 9,000 copies in spite of relatively little media attention. Most of the mainstream media didn't want to touch it for fear of upsetting Investec. Sergeant named names and the publishers were terrified about publishing it. They only did so after seeking top legal advice.It went through a rigorous legal process and meticulous fact-checking before publication. There were no legal repercussions at all.There was a lot of bluster - KPMG said the book was "a web of fiction" and Investec denied Sergeant's allegations, which it called "spurious". But he was never sued.Inspired by an almost divine fury against corporate corruption - he was never more energised than when giving the finger to monopoly capital - Sergeant was passionately involved in his books, which was not always a good thing.He insisted on doing them his way and didn't take kindly to being edited. He was said to have driven one editor to the verge of a nervous breakdown and other editors who worked with him almost needed counselling. One publisher had to appeal to him to go easy on them.He wasn't interested in making his books easy to read and, densely packed with complicated financial details as they were, they were not. But factually his work was always spot on.Sergeant was born in Lusaka on February 7 1958.As a youngster he hunted the big five with his father. Later, during school holidays while a boarder at St John's College in Houghton, he worked as a cowboy on his stepfather's huge cattle ranch in Botswana where lions roamed.After graduating from the University of the Witwatersrand with a BCom LLB he worked as a judge's clerk and was admitted to the bar before switching to journalism. After working on Business Times he worked as a mining investment analyst at BoE NatWest.While there he rumbled Kebble for the first time after finding he had bought a rubbish mine in West Africa, talked it up, listed it and made a lot of money. Kebble sued Sergeant.BoE refused to back him, saying they were there to make money, not compile contentious reports. He sought and found backing from an unlikely source, Tiny Rowland, the head of Lonrho who saw through Kebble from the word go.Kebble settled on the steps of the court and agreed to pay Sergeant's costs. The two of them developed an unlikely friendship which survived an attempt by Kebble to get Sergeant to start a magazine in opposition to Noseweek.In 2002, after the rand had collapsed from R7.60 to R13.84 to the dollar, South African Chamber of Business CEO Kevin Wakeford blew the whistle on suspected currency manipulation. Sergeant broke the story in Finance Week and was promptly fired.President Thabo Mbeki appointed a commission of inquiry, which was suddenly terminated just before some big corporations were investigated.Twelve years later, Sergeant wrote The Assault on the Rand, based on his own digging and hundreds of hours of interviews with Wakeford.Last year, he wrote a piece in Noseweek fingering a list of people who had benefited after the commission was closed down. Top of the list was Penuell Maduna, who as justice minister played a key role in terminating it and scored hundreds of millions of rands in a subsequent BEE deal with Sasol, which might have faced some awkward exposures had the commission been allowed to complete its work, said Sergeant.Sergeant was a walking encyclopaedia with a Formula One IQ. There was no financial or legal complexity he could not get his head around.And when he smelt a rat he was unrelenting."Follow the money," he would say. "We'll find the bastards."He had an uncanny ability to read a set of financials and find the blind spot and unpack that blind spot and who had committed the evil deed.He was never scared to name names, but he was never sued. The "bastards" he exposed knew better than that.He and Wakeford became close friends. When Sergeant was diagnosed with skin cancer and then lip cancer in 2013 and hankered after the kind of life he had known and loved when growing up, Wakeford made his farm near Rosendal in the eastern Free State available and helped him stock it with goats, sheep and cattle.Sergeant brought to farming the same passion and quickly-acquired knowledge he brought to anything else he did, be it bees, falconry or malamute huskies, which at one point in his life he brought back to Johannesburg from Alaska, where he had participated in husky sled-trail runs. He tried to make it a national sport in South Africa but there wasn't enough snow or something and it never quite took off.On "his" farm he made superior, award-winning organic goat's milk cheese which graced the tables of the elite in Johannesburg and Cape Town.Sergeant was well known in whatever community he found himself. With his winklepicker crocodile-skin boots and cowboy hat, he was not someone who went around incognito.He was married and divorced three times; his final wife, whom he met on the internet, was from Russia.He is survived by his son, Warren. 1958-2017