THE INSPIRATION: CHANEL'S 1930S REVIVAL Taking inspiration from British interior designer Syrie Maugham, CHANEL's SS17 Haute Couture collection was theatrical yet demure.The beauty look picked up on the contrast of matte and iridescent textures of the clothes paraded down the runway. The makeup played on the classic tones of the '20s and '30s. Eyes were washed with matte taupe shadow blended into the socket, almost to the point of diaphaneity, while lips were given a muted dusty beige tone that elevated their natural colour.Incorporating an aspect of the popular glitter trend gave the overall look an updated, youthful refinement; silver specks acted as a highlighter along the cheekbones and temples.The hair was an ode to retro with a sleek, deep side-parting. Easier to pull off than the iconic finger-waves, it was lacquered with gel and sculpted into place with a fine-toothed comb. HOW TO GET THE LOOK Give skin a radiant finish by adding a liquid highlighter to your foundation before application or using a foundation with illuminating properties. Set foundation with an iridescent face powder.Try this: CHANEL Les Beiges Teint Belle Mine Naturelle Healthy Glow Foundation, R900 Makeup bag detox: how to tell when your beauty products are past their primeBlush can be used as a medium to contour the face as well as to add colour. Create a flush of colour that sculpts by working a warm apricot or bronze blush into the hollows of the cheeks and under the apples of the cheeks.Try this: CHANEL Coco Codes Joues Contraste in 370 El gance, R720 Add dimension to matte lips by lining and filling them in with a creamy lip liner. Then apply a cream lipstick in the same colour to the centre of the lips and tap in with your finger.Try this: 3INA The Intense Lipstick in 301 Old Rose, R150Use a dark brown brow powder from the arch to the end of the brow to create a defined shape, then brush up the inner third of the brow with brow gel to give it a natural, hair-like texture.Try this: L'Oreal Paris Brow Artiste Kit, R180 Minimal effort, maximum impact: 5 beauty resolutions you'll actually keepSmooth out your nail surface with a base coat that is slightly matte or has an opaque finish before applying colour. This will add tone to a neutral shade.Try this: 3INA The Smooth Base, R100 Apply a metallic shimmer powder rather than craft glitter to your temples and blend in for a subtle glitter effect on the face.Try this: Catrice Eyematic Eye Powder Pen in 010, R80 Apply a clear hair gel to the hair and work into the strands with a wide-toothed comb. When the gel is evenly distributed, wrap the hair around the head using a smaller styling comb in a spiral formation and secure with bobby pins.Editor's Tip: Never comb out hair after the gel has set. Wash with shampoo first then brush out to prevent breakage.Try this: Perfect Touch Wetlook Gel Firm Hold 250ml, R47