AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Suddenly and unexpectedly there's more energy about than you know what to do with. Include some exercise in your new routine. Used well, this high-voltage splurge can take you anywhere you want to go. Used badly, it'll make you yell at everyone in sight, demand attention and favours instead of asking nicely, and generally drive everyone bananas. So be good. Write a list of desires.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)This is an extraordinary time for you, despite the fact that everything around you seems to be standing still. You're hesitant about your decisions, yet you're being manoeuvred into making changes in your living arrangements and maybe even relationships. At least you have money to back you up. Finances are strong, and, if you have the stomach for it, you might try some investments.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Your love potential has just soared as the planet of romance, beauty and sensuality makes herself comfortable in your heart. Make the most of your appeal, but resist the urge to remind everyone else how best to improve themselves. Reserve your energies for basking in the sunlight of others' approval. And, when you're feeling generous, remember to give a little back. Open some doors.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)There's money to be made, won or given. However it happens, you're covering all the financial territory you'd ever hoped for. The only snag is your health. You could always use that as an excuse to procrastinate or you could dose yourself with vitamins and leafy veg. Don't expect any help from friends. They'll be battling their own little wars, and looking to you for inspiration.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Long-term changes in health and career are coming up. While you're dealing with that, changes in your spiritual direction take you down a different road. Your dreams and wishes suddenly seem foreign. Adding to your confusion is an apparent betrayal by a close friend. Look in the mirror before making accusations. Ask yourself how you contributed, and be willing to change.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)You're finally learning to accept yourself just the way you are. Progress at last and rewards waiting to be claimed. The challenge is to keep your goals realistic and be satisfied with a slow progression, instead of the single giant step you had in mind. Humility is needed . You don't have to be perfect to be okay, but you do have to be tolerant. And grateful for every relationship you have.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Willpower is out the window, leaving that fabulous ego floating on its own little cloud. Nothing wrong with that, as long as you watch a tendency to buy everything you see, take bizarre risks and imagine yourself to be invincible. On the upside, everyone wants to spend time with you. You're fun to be with. Just lock your wallet away until it's all over. Or don't. Up to you.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Can't remember what you believe in, who your real friends are, or what those dreams mean? It's all as it should be. The planets are demanding a course correction. Instead of sailing along, hoping your life will miraculously improve, you need to decide what you really want. Until you figure that out, every part of your life will be given a nudge - starting with your innermost beliefs.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Venus is messing with your heart. So if your love life has taken a dive, use the energy to revisit and fix relationships. Or leave. Waiting for someone to change is as useful as counting your past mistakes. You're in charge of your relationships. If you want them to change, start with yourself. There's no blame, but you're the only one with the power to fix your life. Start by loving yourself.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Something peculiar is happening to your relationships. This could mean make-ups, break-ups, marriages, divorces, affairs. And every moment will be accompanied by the kind of intensity that leaves you gasping. This is an important time in your life; a time to look at all the baggage you've been carrying around for too many years. You may even find some of it comes in human form.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)The job you thought you loved is starting to look frayed around the edges. But don't sign that resignation letter yet. If you look more closely, you'll see it's you who's feeling shabby. And under-appreciated. Instead of blaming, spend a weekend in the country getting a better understanding of the meaning of beauty. And after that, if you still want to resign, go ahead. Just wait for next month.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)If you can arrange it, spend the rest of the month clamped to your headphones. Music, fantasy and your own creative genius are the only things that make any sense to you right now. So, although it may be a little bit scary for the control-freak in you, try having a little fun in your own version of Disneyland. You can get back to being rational whenever you like. Romance is also needed.