The stellar line-up is: Marc Lottering, Tumi Morake, Loyiso Gola, Celeste Ntuli, Leeanda Reddy, Krijay Govender, Schalk Bezuidenhout, Joey Rasdien, Tol Ass Mo, Khanyisa Bunu and Rory Petzer. Darren Maule will lead the proceedings.We asked them to tell us which topics get them the most laughs and who they'll be targeting as the butt of their jokes in 2017.Topic that got you the most laughs last year?Social media tendencies.2017's victim?IT Girls!Heckle if you dare: Celeste Ntuli & SA's sisters of standupBest and worst thing about South African audiences?Best: Decent looking people with lovely accents.Worst: Not shy to ask for comps.Topic that got you the most laughs last year?Facebook. Because so many South Africans were feeling hashtag "blessed".Ask yourself a question and then answer it.Question: Marc, do you ever feel that your good looks get in the way of your comedy?Answer: I get that question a lot. Ag, it's just something I've had to live with all my life, so I've always had to work that extra bit harder.Topic that got you the most laughs last year?Talking about radio and what happens but doesn't get said.2017's victim?Donald Trump is the obvious person but this topic has become problematic for two reasons - a) It's too obvious; b) It's very hard to parody a parody.Ask yourself a question and then answer it.Q: Are you looking forward to doing your last show before the Racism Bill comes in?A: Yes I am. I'm going to film it so I can show it to my grandchildren. I will title it "What the world was like when we didn't take ourselves so damn seriously".The joke's on racism: South Africans are more likely to laugh at themselvesTopic that got you the most laughs last year?My joke about a kiddies show in Holland where a little girl is looking for her cat. If you don't know what a cat is called in Dutch, Google it.2017's victim?The same as every year - Steve Hofmeyr. He's an endless pit of material (and racism).Ask yourself a question and then answer it.Q: So Schalk, if you could be any Afrikaans comedian with a moustache and curly hair, who would you be?A: I think I would have to say Schalk Bezuidenhout. I love that guy.Topic that got you the most laughs last year?My size and all the things I have done trying to get rid of my extra weight.2017's victim?Jub Jub...we have to welcome the guy back to our communities with a joke or two.Topic that got you the most laughs last year?I questioned whether or not Rodriguez was even alive when he performed at the Durban ICC. He moved like a puppet and had everyone else in the audience singing his songs.2017's victim?All students and Somizi. That dude just makes it too easy.Topic that got you the most laughs last year?Tinder.2017's victim?Tinder and cheaters.Ask yourself a question and then answer it.Q: Who do you think is the greatest sportsman of all time?A: Xander Cage. The Kings and Queens of Comedy will be travelling to Johannesburg and Cape Town. Date are yet to be finalised. This article was originally published in The Times.