As the EFF protested outside Parliament, MPs and guests arrived on the red carpet ahead of this year s State of the Nation address.Apart from the big speech, the red carpet - and who is hot versus a hot mess - has become the second big talking point about the prestigious event. Best dressed or fashion fail? Designers rate arrivals on the #SONA2017 red carpet </img> Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba and his wife Norma arrive on the SONA red carpet. Image: ESA ALEXANDERHome Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba and his wife Norma arrive on the SONA red carpet. Image: ESA ALEXANDERAs the guests trickled into the house, Zuma finally arrived in his cavalcade that traversed the streets of the Cape Town CBD amid concerns after the Presidency s decision to deploy 441 members of the South African National Defence Force. The pomp and ceremony included a 21 gun salute and singing of the national anthem.</img>President Jacob Zuma arrives at the 2017 State of the Nation Address. Image: GALLOPresident Jacob Zuma arrives at the 2017 State of the Nation Address. Image: GALLOPraise singer Given Lubisi, 11, led the procession into Parliament, but the president did not receive a courteous welcome with EFF members chanting 'tsotsi' as he walked in. But it was opposition MPs and not Zuma who kicked proceedings off at the official opening of Parliament raising various points of order.The house erupted in chaos as members of the EFF used their hard hats as missiles after parliamentary protection services members were called in to remove them from the National Assembly as screams of "f**k you" rang out from ANC benches.</img>Police gather outside as the house descends into chaos inside Parliament. Image: BOIKHUTSO NTSOKOPolice gather outside as the house descends into chaos inside Parliament. Image: BOIKHUTSO NTSOKO</img>Economic Freedom Fighters clash with Parliamentary protective services. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMESEconomic Freedom Fighters clash with Parliamentary protective services. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES</img>The protection services were ordered to remove the Red Berets by speaker Baleka Mbete after almost an hour of disruptions derailed President Jacob Zuma s speech. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMESThe protection services were ordered to remove the Red Berets by speaker Baleka Mbete after almost an hour of disruptions derailed President Jacob Zuma s speech. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES</img>Members of the EFF used their hard hats as missiles after parliamentary protection services members were called in to remove them from the National Assembly as screams of "f**k you" rang out from ANC benches. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMESMembers of the EFF used their hard hats as missiles after parliamentary protection services members were called in to remove them from the National Assembly as screams of "f**k you" rang out from ANC benches. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES</img>Economic Freedom Fighters were dragged out kicking and screaming. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMESEconomic Freedom Fighters were dragged out kicking and screaming. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMESFists, safety helmets and bricks came to the party. They came out of the House screaming, followed by a large group of parliamentary protection services members.About 30 public order police, in full riot gear, met them as they exited, leading to a tense stand-off outside Parliament. The 'F**k you!' the moment everyone's talking about left Parliament's sign language translator at a loss as to how to interpret the expletive - but he did so dutifully. The Democratic Alliance soon after staged a walkout in protest against the presence of soldiers in the parliamentary precinct and the firing of pepper spray in the public gallery. </img>Patricia de Lille walks past the substance which was release inside the National Assembly during the State of the Nation Address. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMESPatricia de Lille walks past the substance which was release inside the National Assembly during the State of the Nation Address. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMESParliament s acting spokesperson Manelisi Wolela said on Friday morning that the powder that was dropped from the public gallery did not originate from its protection services personnel. It seems this pepper spray when some members were being taken out of the house somebody dropped in something which acted like a pepper spray which created so much discomfort amongst so many people that were there he told Radio 702.</img>President Jacob Zuma reacts during the chaos at the State of the Nation Address. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES President Jacob Zuma reacts during the chaos at the State of the Nation Address. Image: ESA ALEXANDER/THE TIMES "Finally!" Zuma exclaimed as he began his much-delayed State of the Nation speech.