WHERE IT IS In the Melrose Arch shopping and chilling precinct, which is to say that a raft of shops, bars, restaurants, a gym, a comedy club and a fantastic spa are a few minutes apart, on foot, on probably the safest streets in Joburg. Weekend Escape: Glenburn Lodge and Spa, MuldersdriftSTYLEContemporary five-star d cor with a bit of colonial splendour in the mix. There is a vast lounge with deep, dark leather couches, reminiscent of the fittings on a royal train, and a raised verandah where you may take tea and watch the precinct unfold about you. Our room was a mix of African chic and modern loft living, with nice touches such as the zebra-print chair and the safe hidden behind a painting of a burglar pushing aside a painting to crack a safe.SERVICEFriendly and efficient without being annoying and intrusive. Nothing was too much trouble.WHAT'S THE GRUB IS LIKEMarch Restaurant gets rave reviews and the hotel staff boast that it serves "the best breakfast in Joburg". Which may be true - the breakfast was certainly vast and excellent, but then breakfast is hard to do badly. We had dinner at Goliath's Comedy Club across the road, where the food could have been a joke, haha, but did, in fact, turn up what may be the best pizza in Joburg. Plus we got to laugh heartily while eating . Lunch was simple but decent pub food at the Pool Bar, where some of the tables are in a shallow pool so you can cool your heels too.ACTIVITIESIt feels like a city hotel with city things to do on the doorstep. We went for a minibreak - which, since we live in Joburg felt quite strange, yet liberating. We did hit the Camelot Spa for a 30-minute couples' massage, which was sublime. See melrosespa.co.za for details.FACILITIESGiven its location, it's no surprise that the hotel is one of the best and most popular conferencing venues in town. There is a pool and a few bars. Wifi is fast and free for guests.RATESThe hotel is running its Nothing But Luxury special on Fridays and Saturdays. Rates start at R1,230 per person sharing, including a champagne breakfast.CONTACTBookings can be made here or call the hotel on 011-214-6666 or e-mail apma.res@africanpridehotels.com. Ash was a guest of African Pride Melrose Arch