We put out a call to our readers to be part of the panel of tasters; they came together on a Saturday morning and were presented with five rotisserie chickens from leading supermarkets. To ensure the chickens were given a fair tasting and presented at their best they were purchased just before tasting. They were served naked without any branding or packaging.Each of the chickens, except for the one from Woolworths, which came in a plastic-lined brown bag, came in a resealable microwave-proof easy-to-carry bag with a zip pouch and re-heating instructions. The chickens were judged on appearance, aroma, quality of the skin, seasoning, texture and whether the taster would buy it.Auditor Jade Craig was on hand to monitor the process from removing the packaging to numbering the products, overseeing the process in the kitchen and adding up the scores on the score sheets presented to the tasters.Judges' comments: A well-presented chicken with good texture. The skin was an attractive brown colour although not crisp. It was declared juicy and firm but tender. Some felt the seasoning was its only downfall.Price: R59.99 per kg (priced by weight)*Purchased at Norwood Spar, Johannesburg Judges' comments: The flesh was moist and flavoursome but it was lacking when it came to appearance - it wasn't brown enough and the skin was not crisp. The flavour was consistent throughout the chicken.Price: R69.99 (flat price)*Purchased at Woolworths Norwood, Joburg Where to buy the best crunchy coleslaw to use as the perfect braai side Judges' comments: Good appearance with tender flesh but flavour and seasoning were lacking. Some said it was undercooked and a bit bloody close to the bone. Flesh was described as "putty".Price: R56.99 (flat price)*Purchased at Pick n Pay Norwood Mall, Johannesburg Judges' comments: Looked good but was dry and a bit salty. Some said it was a tough bird and the aftertaste was not great. The skin was tough and not crisp. The aroma was not as appealing as the taste - and one panellist found feathers on a drumstick.Price: R59.99 (flat price)*Purchased at Checkers Balfour Park, Joburg Where to get the best-dressed & well-seasoned potato salad Judges' comments: Very brown, tough and overcooked. Skin was crisp but flavour was lacking. The flesh was dry - "it looks like an old chicken," said one taster. "I would rather starve," said another. "This chicken should not be sold to anyone," said a third.Price: R59.99 (flat price)*Purchased at Food Lovers, Norwood Mall Johannesburg