Fashion designers Gert-Johan Coetzee of GJC Ole Ledimo of House of Ole and Gugu Mlambo Msomi of Gugulam are weighing in on the various looks:An early thumbs down went to Democratic Alliance MP Natasha Mazzoni (pictured above). She arrived with her blonde locks curled and parted at the side in a red angel high-neck dress and matching red lipstick. The colour red makes her look bigger. The dress looks like it was not made for her. Not a well-made dress in my opinion said Ledimo.Oops: Coetzee said that the piece is one from his Spree online retail range although he did not dress her for the event.DA MP Juanita Terblanche arrived in a vintage-inspired black velvet dress with pearls streaming down the mid-section of her back chandelier style.This won another reprimand from Ledimo who said: "I m definitely not in favour of the Oscar look for the opening of Parliament. The pearls are definitely too heavy for that dress I think we get dress codes so wrong .Again Coetzee disagreed. I think it s beautiful a powerful look and nice on a red carpet said Coetzee. #SONA2017 DA MP Juanita Terblanche arrives in velvet and pearls. pic.twitter.com/RU2G6xWb9VParty leader Mmusi Maimane and his wife Natalie were a matched pair in black.#SONA2017 Mmusi and Natalie Maimane. pic.twitter.com/vPJphcm57x I think Mmusi and his wife look absolutely stunning the detail is perfect. They match completely and it s really good they both look well-taken care of said Coetzee.Ledimo was having none of that: Mmusi s wife same Oscar vibe .The designers did not comment on Mrs Maimane s accessories which included an armband made by their daughter. She tweeted a photo of it saying: Our Darling Girl's addition to my ensemble it matches and everything! Our Darling Girl's addition to my ensemble it matches and everything! pic.twitter.com/bF9siHVtenThey said it was going to be a hot 29 degrees Celsius today and Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille listened to the weather forecasters when choosing her outfit.De Lille arrived in a loose flowing kaftan - unlike the pants suits she has worn in previous years - accompanied by her husband Edwin. Both were wearing beaming smiles in line with the bright colours of red and magenta they chose to don.#SONA2017 Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and her husband Edwin. pic.twitter.com/3itVWhOZqvCoetzee was taken aback: Patricia De Lille is wearing a kaftan I think it s nice. I don t think it is so appropriate for the occasion because it s more of a day look so that s not a favourite of mine. Was she going to the flea market? Ledimo said of De Lille s look adding that her husband s suit fits ok but this look is so tired. [It s] boring and makes him look old . Fortunately for the mayor her choice secured a rave review from our third designer: Mlambo Msomi. I love Patricia De Lille. I think she is just channelling 60s flower power a very hippies slick couple. She s like a ray of sunshine. I like the fact that he also brought in the colour and he tops it off with a pink shirt and the use of the tie against it. I think the two of them look like a happy lot. It s a great-looking couple. African National Congress MP Tsapane Mampuru and her daughter arrived in traditional prints.ANC MP Tsapane Mampuru and her daughter arrive for #SONA2017 pic.twitter.com/sANrJvluKp I really like when people dress in their traditional cultural wear. I m enjoying that it s great! said Coetzee. Bright colourful dress **thumbs up** but the dress can be improved commented Ledimo. The daughter looks great in her bold African print ensemble. Love the bright yellow warm colour. The MP looks like a ray of happiness in a bright polka-dot pink dress complements her daughter s youthful jovial spirit said Mlambo Msomi.Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewald wore an everyday suit while his wife Hedwig came in a one-shouldered dress with embossed fabric and a metallic clutch.FF Plus leader Pieter Groenewald and his wife Hedwig arrive for #SONA2017 pic.twitter.com/3uyxxOdsaJ Mrs Groenewald has kept it quite simple and classic. I love the colour of her dress and the colours she has on. Nicely coordinated with her husband. The colour of his tie picks up on what she s wearing and it s a lovely simpler print said Mlambo Msomi.The MP united our dissenting design duo in dislike however: They don t look amazing so it s not really that great. It s very plain it s not really that much of an effort. It looks like something that they got from their cupboard which is fine but I mean it s a very formal event so you should dress up a little bit more said Coetzee. Suits! Everything about them is wrong " Ledimo said of Groenewald. His wife got a let-off from the designer though: "Her dress is beautiful right length." - TMG Digital/TimesLIVE