Director Terrence Malick, it turns out, is no different. The reclusive master's latest opus glides past the 120-minute mark still tinkling away in the same tone in which it began - one that also predominated in his 2015 romantic odyssey Knight of Cups and vast tracts of his 2012 heartbreaker To The Wonder.These three latter-day Malicks have been turned out in uncharacteristically quick succession for the director. (His miraculous second and third features, Days of Heaven and The Thin Red Line, came 20 years apart.) But even describing them as "of a piece" would undersell just how interchangeable so much of their look and substance feels.'Harry Potter' to star in apartheid jail break movieSong to Song unfolds in and around the rock scene in Austin, but you sense it wouldn't be noticeably different if it had been set at a bacon factory or an ice rink. The sweat and throb and stink of the music business - all out-of-character stuff you'd love to see Malick grapple with - are conspicuous by their absence. In their place is yet another petal-hued Miltonian whisperscape, with attractive actors dancing the usual metaphysical love-ballet in shifting sunlight.Michael Fassbender and Ryan Gosling fare better than you might expect. Both men's styles might seem incompatibly different, but they mix well on the Malick palette. Gosling plays BV, an affable singer-songwriter who's offered a contract by Fassbender's Cook, a fearsome record producer who lives in an impossibly expensive-looking glass and concrete cuboid. The film is far less intrigued by music than privilege: even the various cameoing rock stars, from John Lydon to Iggy Pop, are usually seen rambling away in VIP areas rather than singing.Malick being Malick, BV and Cook's pact is all-but-literally Faustian. The artist's soul is claimed via the rights to his lyrics - here, soul and talent are interchangeable - while his master is repeatedly likened to the devil: halfway through the film, Cook even monologues about his Lucifer-like descent.One man is as charming as the other is terrifying, and it's an occasionally potent combination. There's a nice scene in which Cook tries on BV's jacket: "It makes you walk different," BV muses, while Cook offers to buy him 100 more like it.In another sequence, during a trip to Mexico, Cook buys a mouth-squeaker from a hawker and starts acting like a monkey, flailing and screeching at his guests. It's an unnerving performance from an actor whose entire body throughout the film seems tight with threat.But it's also bodies - female ones - that Song to Song keeps tripping over. Present on the jaunt to Mexico is Faye (Rooney Mara), a would-be singer-songwriter who once worked as Cook's secretary, and interned as his lover, in the hope of securing a record deal.The plot comes at us artfully rumpled out of order - time frames criss-cross, clothes and hairstyles change in a blink, you're trusted to join the dots - but at this point Faye is BV's girlfriend, with Cook shooting her possessive looks. It's dastardly behaviour, but no worse than that of Malick's camera, which can't find a square millimetre of Mara's midriff it doesn't like.WATCH the trailer for Song to Song Sex and Malick have never been an easy fit, but Song to Song plumbs new boreholes of cringe, and its various bedroom encounters, shot in the usual extreme wide-angle, are gauzy and bloodless. The film is to sex as a lepidopterist is to a butterfly cabinet - it gets right in there with the magnifying glass, but perish the thought that anything might flap.See also B r nice Marlohe in the thankless role of a chic lesbian house-sitter, or Natalie Portman as a sugar-pink, bottle-blonde and unwittingly stunning diner waitress whom Cook seduces and corrupts. Their stories don't operate on anything other than a symbolic level, and become just more froth on the film's meandering current. - The Daily Telegraph, London 'Song to Song' is in cinemas.