Underneath that modesty though is a coach, interim or not, who is a perfect fit for the Midlands side. He has helped The Team of Choice punch above their weight as they look to finish in the top eight for only the second time in their history.Davids has done better than Ernst Middendorp and Roger de Sa, elevating the club from the depths of relegation where these two coaches left it. In doing that, the 35-year-old unintentionally became the kingmaker in the Absa Premiership race. Maritzburg caretaker coach Davids credits former coach Middendorp for club's success United knocked out championship contenders Cape Town City from the race with their 1-0 win and derailed defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns with a 2-2 draw, clearing the path for Bidvest Wits to claim the coveted trophy. They are seventh on the log table, on the cusp of their second top-eight finish with a match to go."I have Ernst to thank for being here," Davids said. "I remember returning from an ankle injury and I was 90% fit. I was still limping. Ernst didn't have an assistant at the time and he told me that from tomorrow on I will be his assistant."I still wanted to play but I wasn't at my optimum best so I agreed. He took me under his wing. The transition was easy because I was the club's captain so I was already vocal. That was in January of 2012. I haven't looked back since then."Davids spent the better part of his apprenticeship under Middendorp, serving as second-in-command to the German at United, Bloemfontein Celtic, Chippa United and back to Maritzburg. In those stints, he showed that he can stand on his own and assume the head coach position. Those calls have grown louder with his stellar work that earned him the coach of the month award for April."I was offered the head coach job at Chippa after Ernst left but I refused because I wasn't where I want to be," Davids said. "Being a head coach is a demanding job that takes a lot out of you."It's something that I want to do in the long run but not now. I am looking at the bigger picture. I still want to improve myself. I go to coaching courses every time I get during pre-season or in January. As head coach I wouldn't be able to do that."The man who turns 36 today holds Uefa B and Caf A licences. But importantly, he holds a special place in the hearts of many Maritzburg players, especially those who grew up under him.That's how he is able to get the best out of youngsters like Mlondi Dlamini, Bandile Shandu and Siphesihle Ndlovu who started as ball boys and graduated to the first team. The players aren't the only ones who have embraced the Capetonian in the KwaZulu-Natal capital."People mistake me for a KZN boy," he said. "They are not far off because I do feel like one. My kids were born here and this feels like my second home."