2am. Harsh lights flash on abruptly. You're contorted in a stuffy box with 51 other inmates. A voice barks over a muffled Tannoy. Then you are released, rubbing circulation back into aching limbs. You have 10 minutes of freedom to use the bathroom and breathe fresh air.This is not a detention camp. It's an intercity bus. A funny thing happened when I became the prodigal bus passengerLong-distance bus transportation promises so much. The brochures are as appealing as they are untrue: images of smiling attendants and an impressively liveried bus attempt to convince you that this is not just a practical, but also an effortlessly luxurious way to travel. What could be more undemanding than reclining in air-conditioned comfort, watching the country drift colourfully by?But this is not the reality. Sure, the attendants are friendly in a Hotel California way, but that's about it.The first time I took a long-distance bus, it was from Grahamstown to Joburg. I imagined it would be an opportunity to travel with interesting people. I thought it'd be Kerouac's On the Road with a local backdrop.It wasn't. The bus stop was a parking lot in which anxious people huddled, checking their phones every two minutes as if to will the bus into arriving on time. As it happened, the bus didn't arrive until nearly three hours past its scheduled time. Then the driver decided to refuel at a garage whose roofing attached itself to the roof of the double-decker. We stayed there for an hour until a man arrived with a hammer to unstick us by bashing a hole in the roof. We proceeded on our way, hopelessly late and with the hole whistling away.Then there was the time the bus didn't arrive at all. Word arrived that our carriage had suffered an altercation with a guinea fowl whose last moments had rendered the bus unfit for purpose. And the time the bus broke down under an overpass in central Johannesburg, much to the horror of passengers who thought this meant certain death.Over the years, I came to know that route well. I knew that if I took the bus on a Thursday, the first movie would be Mister Bones, and that there is nothing as interminable as 8:30am when you're craning your neck and waiting for Grahamstown to appear. I learnt that a great deal of your time is taken up with waiting. Waiting while the bus offloads people. Waiting while people get on. Jolting awake and anxiously wondering why the bus has switched its engines off in a lay-by in Aliwal North.Bus travel is not relaxing. It's noisy transit in the belly of a fibreglass whale with strangers. It's desperate pies purloined from last-chance petrol stations in the dead of night. There's no Wi-Fi, the seats are upholstered in vile velour, and there's nowhere to charge your phone. You end up in a tense contest between interrupting the interminable boredom of the journey and ending up with a dead phone.And when you reach your destination you're exhausted by sitting. Which sounds faintly ridiculous until you try it.To travel by bus is to do battle with a depersonalising system wherein a company picks you up in one place and dumps you in a disorderly heap somewhere else. And it's smelly. Centuries of evolution have made us distinctly anxious about unpleasant odours. They usually signify poison, or a predator nearby, or a corpse in the next room. But to travel by bus is to be plunged into a world of threatening smells.Park Station smells like industrial cleaning products and weary feet mixed with diesel and various sulphurs. Then you board and spend eight hours beside someone whose musk is Aramis-meets-onion.You will never sit next to someone who smells nice. There may even be a baby about.And if they happen to smell alright, they will soon solve the anomaly by unleashing their Tupperware terror.Bus services need to have devices like the weapons scanners at airports. They would flag anyone attempting to board a bus with contraband food. Egg sandwiches? Please step aside, sir. Boiled-chicken milkshake? This way please, ma'am.I once watched a man peel - slowly and with sadistic relish - three very hardboiled eggs, and then proceed to chew on them contemplatively, while my eyes watered. Then there is the matter of seating. On a bus, every seat is the wrong seat. Ignore the glib adverts promoting luxury seating: only dodgy people and the elderly are impressed by the mention of memory foam.If you are taller than the Dalai Lama, you will find yourself subject to pain in places you never knew you had. The companies that make all the coaches that ply our nation's roadways didn't consider your toes. Or your knees.Their ideal passenger has legs of jelly-like composition, and no kneecaps at all. If you try to ease the torture by reclining your seat, you will be introduced to another delightful feature, which is having the passenger behind you knee your seat back constantly while muttering in a resentful way. Learn to ignore this.South Africa boasts the world's most punctual airlineOne of the mooted benefits of this overland travel is that it is also overnight travel. So you can, the theory goes, sleep through the journey and wake refreshed at your destination. Naturally, you will be seated next to someone who has violent night terrors involving cabbages. Or two rows down from the suspiciously whiffy pee-only loo. Or across from someone who snores at 128db. And if you do manage to doze off, you will be woken by the unsettling sensation of heavy braking as the hurtling flight of your 14-tonne projectile is interrupted by a malevolent donkey or a decrepit Isuzu.I realised that not even the companies believe the dross about this being "luxury". Most of the people inhaling diesel fumes as they waited to board a late-night bus from Bloemfontein were shouldering their lives in a backpack. They were there because they had no option. Which is why a company can tell you that cynical velour upholstery, a scalding cup of bad coffee and a plastic-wrapped biscuit are the height of "luxury".Long-distance busing teaches us that beneath the veneer of branding that proclaims YOUR AIRLINE OF THE MOTORWAY or other grandiose things, lies necessity. The buses meet a demand that arose before air travel became commonplace, and they've continued to have their place because there are vast parts of this and our neighbouring countries that aren't serviced by airports.If you take a bus from Harare to Park Station, you're probably not doing it to broaden your horizons.This prompts an observation: we're seeing new developments in inner-city transportation - high-speed trains, rapid transit systems, Uber - but long-distance road travel has remained stuck in the 1950s. What would happen if we actually made things pleasant for people who can't afford to fly?