Curator Samuel West, a former innovation researcher, said he had grown sick of companies only talking about their successful products, so he decided to celebrate the flops. His museum will open on June 7.''Failure is more interesting and offers us more to learn from," West said.''Eighty to 90% of all innovation projects fail - we must start learning from these."West said that he was inspired to open his museum after a trip to the quirky Museum of Broken Relationships in Zagreb, Croatia. Its collection examines failed relationships and their ruins.Here are some of the best of the worst exhibits:THE REJUVENIQUE ELECTRIC FACIAL MASKDebuted in 1999, the mask delivers shocks to the face to somehow exercise it and reduce wrinkles. But besides the painful- sounding process advertised by the mask, the real put-off is its appearance - it looks like something out of Friday the 13th. It flopped.TRUMP, THE GAMEYes, Donald Trump really endorsed a board game. And despite his own fullsome praise of it - ''It's much more sophisticated than Monopoly, which I've played all my life" - it wasn't a success.TWITTERPEEKThe first Twitter-only mobile device was introduced in 2009. While its predecessor, the Peek (which allowed users to check emails), was lauded for its simplicity, the TwitterPeek was met with universal derision. Gizmodo named it one of the worst gadgets of the decade. HARLEY DAVIDSON EAU DE TOILETTEWho wouldn't want to smell like a motorcycle? Harley-Davidson launched a line of perfumes in 1996 but fans hated it, saying it represented the ''Disneyfication" of the brand.SONY BETAMAXSome of the most famous tech failures are represented. Sony Betamax was launched in 1975 and competed, without success, with the VHS format.BIC HERA pen especially for ladies? The pink Bic pens were ridiculed on social media, with women snapping themselves scribbling messages like ''I wrote this all by myself" and "It's a Miracle".COCA-COLA BLAKA strangely spelled cola and coffee concoction aimed at the ''over-30 savvy, sophisticated achiever". It flopped. This article was originally published in The Times.