What do you do at work most days?Three things: meetings; documenting and updating project status reports; and responding to e-mails and phone calls. I am responsible for the academic work of 12 campuses in the country. How did you end up in this job? I started as a high school teacher in 1986, and in 1987 I joined the University of Swaziland as a teaching assistant. In 1988 I received a Fulbright scholarship to study at Syracuse University. I completed a PhD in linguistics in 1995 at the University of California in Los Angeles, and then in June 1998 I joined the University of the Witwatersrand as a lecturer, where I mostly remained until joining [CTI owner] Pearson as MD for the CTI Education Group in 2014. My working life has concentrated on higher education teaching and academic management. What is the skills gap, and how do you think the government and business should address it?The skills gap is the inability of the labour supply to provide the skills required to grow businesses. In South Africa, the skills gap is unique in that there is a high unemployment rate, but jobs frequently remain unfilled because those who need jobs do not have the skills employers require. There are two ends of the skills-gap challenge:1) The looming crisis of the 54% unemployed youth; and 2) The education value chain that produces graduates without the skills required in the 21st century. I think the solution is a Marshall Plan-like effort [the US's rebuilding of Western Europe after World War 2] in the next three to five years, focused on intensively equipping the 54% of unemployed youth with the practical scarce skills that have been identified by various official documents. I would suggest using the Sector Education and Training Authority skills funds to run this programme ... so that tomorrow's adults have a meaningful stake in society. But, most importantly, we need them to provide for their children so that we can reduce dependence on social grants. For business, it would be an opportunity to train for the skills they require. For government, it would be an opportunity to resolve one of the most pressing social crises we face. How should children find a career that is right for them? I am "old school" in that I believe in aiming high in order to motivate myself to strive for the seemingly impossible. Iencourage children to be brave and identify any career that excites them and motivates them to raise their game as they grow. The "chosen career" may change. That is immaterial. The point is to have an "aspirational goal career" at every stage in order to cultivate discipline and focus. I always advise young people to be willing to experiment with different career trajectories. What did you want to be when you were a child?At first, I wanted to be a policeman! Then a doctor. When I realised they spend all their time with sick people, I lost interest. Then I wanted to be a lawyer. They seemed so powerful, well dressed and well spoken. I ended up, purely by accident, as a teacher. By the time I was admitted to university, my preferred choices of programmes to study for were oversubscribed. So I had to settle for a humanities degree plus a diploma in education. What do you enjoy most about the work you do?I enjoy the variety of what I deal with. No two days that are the same. What part of your job would you prefer not to do?Dealing with employee disciplinary matters: it is unpleasant but necessary. A close second is marking student scripts.What is the best career advice you have ever received, and who gave it to you?Find a cause you care about for which someone is willing to pay you to pursue. Surround yourself with people who share the passion for your cause and you will never have to motivate them. It was given to me by Professor Philip Motibwa, my history professor.