''It's an enormous art installation where people come to admire one another's creativity, just for the sake of creativity."The art at AfrikaBurn, which ended yesterday, is not created with any commercial enterprise in mind. In fact, it's often painstakingly made for years only to go up in a spectacular ball of flame attended by thousands of people in a ritualistic ceremony to mark its destruction.Roughly modelled after the Burning Man art festival, which takes place every year in the Black Rock Desert in Nevada, US, AfrikaBurn, despite its smaller scale, has many similarities. The Zip Zap circus: Juggling with livesBurning Man took place for the first time in 1990 and has been described by two of its founders, John Law and Michael Mikel, as ''an experiment in community and art, influenced by 10 main principles, including 'radical' inclusion, self-reliance and self-expression, as well as community co-operation, civic responsibility, gifting, decommodification, participation, immediacy and leaving no trace".As with Burning Man, the burning of a temple and of a man-like structure (at AfrikaBurn it's called the San Clan) has become a tradition of the festival.This year the structure was called the Temple of Gratitude and was designed by Walter B hmer, a mathematical modeller for a financial services company.B hmer says that the highly mathematically complex structure, intended to silhouette the Tankwa skies, took him a few months to design. He started by making paper and wood models before he took to his computer to finish the structure.''The temple offers a space for meditation and reflection, a place for mourning and a place for honouring - but also a space for gratitude, a sanctuary where we can all give thanks for life's many gifts," he said.''The creation of the temple is entirely volunteer-run, to create beautiful art and facilitate positive shifts in the world."The mad and fantastic crew bringing the temple to AfrikaBurn 2017 loves two things: building big structures and sharing them with others. We're gardeners and engineers, architects and storytellers, astrophysicists, healers, educators and friends."</img>There are games for every taste. Image: Supplied There are games for every taste. Image: Supplied</img>Walking nude and in colour is part of the show. Image: SuppliedWalking nude and in colour is part of the show. Image: Supplied</img>AfrikaBurn is held on a private Northern Cape farm called Stonehenge. Image: SuppliedAfrikaBurn is held on a private Northern Cape farm called Stonehenge. Image: SuppliedThe design of the Temple of Gratitude is based on the Irish father-daughter knot which, as legend goes, is tied by a girl at her father's deathbed.The four edges that point inward symbolise family members looking in towards the father.The two-storey structure stood 8m-high and had a footprint of about 100m2. It was made using more than 8t of wood, a fair amount of steel and several thousand screws and nails.The cathedral-like ground floor had a father-daughter knot painted on the floor and steps at the back led to the second floor, which was in the shape of the knot's inner winged cross.On Saturday at 8pm the temple was torched in a solemn silent burn by ''high priests" of the temple, carrying fiery torches on long rods, and the thousands of messages, pieces of art and prayers that had been written on the inside walls went up in smoke.</img>Crew erect the San Clan, a mammoth sculpture that is the centrepiece of the AfrikaBurn festival each year, before it was torched in a towering blaze. Image: JAMES PITMANCrew erect the San Clan, a mammoth sculpture that is the centrepiece of the AfrikaBurn festival each year, before it was torched in a towering blaze. Image: JAMES PITMAN</img>A group poses for a portrait shot. Image: SuppliedA group poses for a portrait shot. Image: Supplied</img> There were illuminating ideas aplenty. Image: SuppliedThere were illuminating ideas aplenty. Image: SuppliedThe official AfrikaBurn sculpture, the San Clan, was built by Dutch-born, South African resident sculptor Egon Tania, who is the creator of AfrikaBurn's ''Lizzie the T-Rex" - a flaming AfrikaBurn icon.On Saturday evening the crew was still hard at work erecting the final parts of the artwork, so that it could be burned on schedule at 11pm. Carin Bester, a crew member on site at the work, said: ''We hit some snags in the building of this massive work made of steel, wood, charcoal and lots of other materials. When you see it burn in a few hours - you'll understand why we were running late."She wasn't wrong, leaving the thousands of ''burners" who attended the festival in no doubt that these installations make up the world's most impressive outdoor art gallery. This article was originally published in The Times.