TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)It's a great week and you couldn't be having a better time if you'd scripted it yourself. The planets are on track and your mind is on money. The energies of sudden windfalls are with you so buy Lotto tickets and make interesting deals. All you need is a little trust. Wake up each day with a smile, and you'll set the tone for success. Now, about that island you were thinking of buying.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)For once, you truly couldn't care less what others think of you. Don't get too comfortable, but use the time well. You've been so busy trying to impress everyone, you've lost track of your own dreams. This is the perfect week to rediscover your missing self. No big decisions yet though - especially love ones. Focus all your energy on your personal plan for the future.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Feeling better? Isn't it amazing how your energy levels determine the tone of your day? And right now, your energy is pumping. You've been to gym, taken your vitamins, eaten your greens, and you're ready for the world. Just as well. Wednesday's full moon has big plans for you. If you're thinking new projects, now's your chance to round up support. And how about a party?LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)OK, so the support system you relied on has taken the gap. You're feeling alone and weighed down by responsibilities. Actually, this is very good for you. Because finally you're being forced to ask yourself how much really is your responsibility, and how much is about your need to control everyone else? Think about it. And put it down. You're much more loved than you know.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)Instead of sitting about hoping someone else is going to fix the place, how about starting the ball rolling? All that's needed is a change of energy, and pretty soon they'll all catch on. Remember, although it may be vital for you to live and work in fabulous surroundings, not everyone feels the same. And get back to your life - which, incidentally, is taking a brand new road.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Relationships are showing signs of strain, culminating on Wednesday when your attention is pulled elsewhere by a wicked full moon. If you're single, prepare for a magical moment. No need to dive in without looking though. There's plenty of time to play with your options. If you're already involved, beware of taking love for granted. It can fizzle out just as quickly as it arrived.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)Family nightmares could be the result of a shift in priorities all round. And since you've all managed to lose touch with each other, a family meeting might not be a bad idea. In fact, as corny as it might sound, a weekly gathering of the clans might be just the medicine you all need to find each other again. First order of business: lose the guilt trips. They're a waste of energy.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)This is a volatile, complicated time for you. People around you are less confident and looking to you for direction. Don't get sucked into their dramas but use your upbeat dynamism to help where you can. You are wondering how to handle all your obligations. It's time to cut the deadwood. Watch for a tendency to overindulge, or that wonderful passion will drain away.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)A new ability to accept yourself and others is helping you bypass all the petty dramas that bogged you down before. There's progress (at last) and some rewards to be claimed. The challenge now is to keep the goals vaguely realistic and be satisfied with a tottering progression, rather than that giant leap you were hoping for. Humility is the word you're after - it's OK to ask for help.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Careful. Your words are much more powerful than you know. In fact, check for bodies before launching your second attack. Then write yourself a new script starting with phrases like: "No one has to lose for me to win," and "I deserve the very best," and so forth. Your passions are getting the better of you, and you're terrified. Don't be. Everything's just as it should be.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Someone's dumping on you, and for once, you're not buying into the games. Good for you. And no, that little tweak of doubt is not trying to tell you what a toad you are. Try for some communication, and if you're too afraid to speak, write it down. Wednesday's full moon offers the strength you need to take your power back. Meanwhile, don't take your personal life out on the chaps at work.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)If you're bored, do something else. If you're unhappy in love, strike out on your own. You need to be reminded how much fun you are to be around. In fact, right now, you can have whatever you want. Of course, there's always the occasional obligation along the way, but not too many for you to handle. Besides, you'll be coming into some money soon, so if anyone bugs you, pay them off.