When I was a wee lass, not much taller than a gnome, I remember a family holiday to the vaporous mountains of the Eastern Cape. I have excellent memories of smelly forests, icy streams and flat Coke. My parents probably recall it even more vividly: all three of their offspring had a stomach bug and were sick, sick, sick.We stayed in Hogsback and at the more isolated Katberg Hotel, a mountain range or two away. There are snaps in the family album of the latter: mountain peaks, us lot on a donkey cart and a pony with a barrel belly, the youngest daughter slitty-eyed and inexplicably clutching a quart of Castle. The colours are soft and kind; the forests look endless. Good times.In one of these otherworldly images, the Katberg Hotel peeks from a coat of foliage. It was first a sanatorium ("SA's premier pleasure place"), then a hotel. I remember little more than log fires and corridors and my sister's thumb being slammed in a door, but the name has always stuck. Never underestimate the importance of travelling with small changeIn reality it's probably linked to the Kat River, which flows through the Katberg Pass and was supposedly home to wild cats back in the 1800s. I came to associate it with a children's story about a dragon called Katla, and mysterious felines, and forests. And my grandmother.She too was a Katberg enthusiast, back when it was the Katberg Sanatorium. My mom has a certificate dating back to the 1930s, awarded to Miss Van den Heever, Katberg's "Danish Princess of Lover's Lane" for being "Katberg's most graceful, accomplished &amp; wonderful dancer".It lauds her for mountain climbing, and for "walking in Fairy Park by moonlight" and being the "most bright sparkling charming &amp; wonderful lass". Safe to say, my gran made an impression.So when I recently found myself in Hogsback, it felt like the time had come for a little revisiting. The Katberg Hotel, I was told, was closed for now, but there were self-catering cottages, which meant the place still existed. The closest route, via Seymour, was evidently washed out so I went the long way around in a pea-sized rental car.On the road to Fort Beaufort, a hitchhiker in spotless Zionist church gear told me about her daughter and elderly mother and the trouble with jobs in this area, then offered me R20 for the ride. On the road to Seymour and Katberg, another hitchhiker heaved herself into the car, sighing and perspiring generously. She hit me up for aspirin and R20. I liked the symmetry, although no cash exchanged hands.The rugged road to Balfour had the added frisson of the odd tree chopped down to block the way and the remains of burnt tyres: old service-delivery protests, in part, I was told, due to the state of the road. Americans: making holidays grateBut at Balfour people were playing soccer and two kindly grans pointed me down an even narrower dirt road. It climbed as almighty views of the mountains, a pint-sized church and scattered homesteads like Lego bricks unfurled below. There was the buzz of unfamiliar insects and bird calls and strange foliage. And not another soul until thatched security gates told me I'd arrived.As it turned out, Katberg is now an eco-golf estate, a staunchly fenced Pleasantville of residential units and self-catering villas dotted between an 18-hole golf course. Green and lush, it appears teleported into its setting below the smudgy mountains. Security was dubious about letting me in, but a kindly manager gave me the okay and I bumped down concrete roads to the Manor, a clubhouse with a throng of kids and a pool.I didn't, however, get to explore the closed hotel (although on the estate map, one of its buildings was marked Lover's Lane). It didn't really matter - the memories are intact. And the kids bumbling around the estate on a new generation of ponies will no doubt have theirs. Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels to share with us? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za.