The Orlando Pirates' striker didn't even look back after saying those words as he went to bask in the sun outside Rand Stadium on a cold morning after the club's training session.But moments later, he changed his mind, agreeing to talk about his love-hate relationship with the Buccaneers' supporters and how that doesn't affect his game. Jonevret describes Gabuza as one of the best players at Pirates"I have never doubted myself or my talent," Gabuza said."This is a God-given talent so why would I doubt myself? I am doing what Pirates brought me here to do. They saw something in me to bring me here and there is a reason why I have stayed all these years."Gabuza, who arrived at Pirates from Lamontville Golden Arrows in 2013, puts up a don't-mess-with-me front just like an owner of a poodle would put a menacing "Beware of the Dog" sign on a gate.He does it for appearances so that people don't take him lightly even though underneath he is a softie, warm and welcoming.It's a self-defence mechanism he has made a part of his life to deal with people constantly doubting him, using his poor return in front of goals to back their argument.The 29-year-old is yet to reach double digits in a single season in the league.But his attitude and work rate, bulldozing defenders to make space for his teammates, makes him a favourite with coaches."I don't focus on people who aren't here," Gabuza said. "I have to concentrate on my job and give my best every time. I came to Johannesburg to play football and help the team win things, like we are going to win the Nedbank Cup."Before the Buccaneers can think of winning the Nedbank Cup, they first have to get past Arrows in a semifinal clash at Princess Magogo Stadium this afternoon. Durban will offer the Ladysmith-born forward a friendlier environment in front of fans who cheered for him for four years in his time with Abafana Bes'thende.The Buccaneers will return to Durban on Saturday looking to avoid finishing outside of the top eight for the first time in the club's history in the PSL era. The continent's best football brains clashIf they succeed this afternoon, they will make another trip to the city for the final on June 24 at Moses Mabhida Stadium.Gabuza wouldn't mind making those three trips as he has never been booed there. The same can't be said for Orlando Stadium.He showed his frustration in the 3-1 win over amateur side EC Bees, holding his ear as if asking the fans if they have anything to say after he scored."It was just a celebration," Gabuza said as he laughed.That celebration was met with lots of criticism, forcing the striker to apologise.His goal in extra time, in the 2-1 win over Bloemfontein Celtic, more than made up for it as it took Pirates to the last four of the tournament that could salvage what has been a disastrous season.Even though Gabuza doesn't score that much, he always rises to the occasion. One of his most memorable goals is the thunderbolt he unleashed in a tight spot in the first leg of the 2015 Caf Confederation Cup final. That was the last time the Buccaneers were involved in continental football.