I think we can all agree that the best things about winter - unless you live near a ski resort - are clothes with pom-poms on them, soup of all kinds and adopting a devil-may-care attitude to the shaving of legs.Porridge should be on that list, too, but I do realise that very few breakfasters are with me on this.It's sad really. Most people harbour bad feelings towards porridge because of childhood scarring. They were served the stuff lukewarm and/or lumpy and/or without any of the essential gilding which moves it from Dickensian gruel to somewhere between sublime comfort and decadence.How to make overnight vanilla cinnamon oatsA miserable bowl like that is edible only under near-starvation circumstances. But a steaming hot bowl of mielie meal porridge or Taystee-wheat or oats, cooked with care and lavished with a slab of melting butter, a drizzle of real or fake maple syrup and generous cream; well, that's an entirely different meal (and not just for breakfast: my glorious cousin Roland taught me the joys of a bowl of post-party porridge at midnight. I can highly recommend it).Hospitals are the worst offenders. How can one consider offering invalids a cold, butter-less porridge garnished only with a thick leathery skin? Torture.The only hospital where I had a great porridge experience was a tiny mission clinic in the depths of KwaZulu-Natal. A subtropical storm raged outside and they served piping hot, ting-like, soft, sour mielie meal with actual butter and brown sugar.Perhaps my all-time favourite porridge is one inspired by the great Scottish drink, Atholl Brose.Basically, it's oats laced with whisky, honey and cream. It might not be the thing you choose for your children before school but, on a day when work requires less from you, this is a damn fine start to things.Don't even be scared by the amount of booze in it; unlike the original drink version, most alcohol gets cooked off.The original Atholl Brose recipes usually call for straining out the oats themselves through fine ladies' stockings and so on, but this version keeps the feel very close to a modern-day breakfast pottage.So it's porridge technically, but in the way that Cape Canaveral is technically an airport.Here's what you do.For each serving mix two parts oats, two parts whisky and half to one part honey, depending on taste.Leave this for anything from an hour to overnight.To cook, add the usual amount of milk you would (minus what the whisky liquid added) and slow-boil until thick.Serve post-haste in deep, warmed bowls, with an imprudently good dose of butter, plus extra cream, whisky and honey on the side. Possibly consider taking an Uber to work. This article was originally published in The Times.