My children are horrified when I bring home white bread. Like all of us who have been conned by the industrial bread machine, they firmly believe that brown is wholesome and white is rubbish.Is there any truth at all in this? Sadly, no. Well perhaps, if you have an absolutely fibreless diet - in which case your problems are probably bigger than white bread versus brown - the very slight difference in the fibre content (often only about 3%) might count in some insignificant way.But the bottom line is this: whether white or brown, if it's square and soft and wrapped in plastic, it's all the same thing.The healthiness of a loaf is not determined by whether some wheat husks were added. This is determined by totally different things, the most important of which are as follows.Is the bread made as per standard industrial methods (adding gluten, improver and so on, to skip proving time), or is it made traditionally (left to prove for long hours, which destroys certain toxins and make nutrients more bio-available)?Secondly, what sort of flour is being used? Stone-ground flour is a different kettle of wheat from its steel-ground counterpart because it produces a flour with all the original parts still present. No standard supermarket loaves are made with this flour.If it's health you're after get your hands on a sour-dough loaf made with stone-ground flour.German Apple Bread, a version of fruit loaf, is addictive. You do need to plan ahead somewhat.Makes: 1 loafIngredients:350g stone-ground bread flourpinch of salt1 heaped tspn sugar300ml milk15g yeast50g butter1 egg50g seedless raisins4 sharp dessert apples1/2 tspn cinnamoncastor sugar to sprinkle on topMethod:1) Sift together flour and salt.2) Stir sugar and yeast into milk, mix and leave for 20 minutes till frothy. 3) Melt butter over low heat. 4) Make a well in the flour, stir in yeast mix, then whisked egg, then butter and cinnamon. Beat well and leave in a warmish place for some hours (or even overnight in the fridge), till doubled. 5) Knead on a floured board for five minutes, add raisins, then knead again briefly.6) Press dough into two greased loaf tins.7) Peel, core and thinly slice apples. 8) Press slices into dough. Brush surface with water, sprinkle thickly with castor sugar, place dough-filled tin in a plastic packet and leave for 30 minutes to prove.9) Bake at 180 C for 45 minutes.10) Serve warm with buckets of cream, or cold with butter. This article was originally published in The Times.