KRUGER FOR NEWBIESQ. My wife and I want to travel by car to the Kruger National Park on December 18 from Cape Town. As it's our first time, any suggestions would be appreciated.We'd like to know about costs, camp sites and day and night drives by 4x4 with rangers if possible. - Phil ClarkTake a drive on the wild side: Kruger s adventurous new 4x4 Eco TrailA. I can only give a very general answer to such a general question here, but the first thing is to make your reservations as soon as you can, as the park gets completely booked out over school holidays.As you cannot enter the park after 5pm, it's best to enter early in the morning so you may have to plan two overnight stops driving from Cape Town.On a first visit and after such a long drive, I would plan to stay for at least five to seven days in the park. It covers a huge area, 360km from top to bottom, and within it are different habitats and topographic biomes.Many people feel that the remote north of the park is the best, but most visitors probably stick to the more accessible lower end and the middle.Without even counting the private reserves adjoining Kruger, the main park itself has 12 main rest camps, five bushveld camps, two bush lodges and four satellite camps.But don't be tempted to jump camps too much, you will want some days with less driving and more relaxing.Take your own food and drink within reason: there are shops in the camps but they tend to be more expensive and the restaurants can vary.Well-organised self-catering can add enormously to your enjoyment of the park. You won't regret taking a decent can opener and bottle opener as well.Guided game drives are available from Kruger's camps, three-hour drives in the morning and evening and a shorter night drive. You need to enquire on arrival at each camp, but all the drives can be booked ahead through the SanParks central reservation system.It's best to do that for December.You can do guided walking trails at only five camps: Berg-en-Dal, Satara, Pretoriuskop, Punda Maria and Letaba, but most of Kruger's camps offer daily early morning and afternoon guided walks.Costs vary according to the facilities of each rest camp, but generally Kruger offers excellent value compared to private reserves.For full details of camps and prices, and to plan your trip accordingly, go to sanparks.org/parks/kruger. Travel tips: Can I get a multiple-entry Schengen visa that's valid for some years? THE FORGOTTEN VISAQ. I read your travel page recently answering a question on South Africans requiring a visa for the UK. My husband already has his Schengen visa but I had no idea he also needed a UK visa.That was really remiss of me as I hold a British passport. So glad I read your article! We are travelling to Amsterdam on May 31 and were hoping to visit my nephew in the UK for a week. I would be so grateful if you could tell me how to go about obtaining a UK visa in the quickest possible time - if we still have time. - Angela DavidsonA. You have to apply for a visa online, where you can also find details about the documentation required.You then have to book an appointment with the agency here in South Africa which processes the applications and forwards them to the embassy. It will also advise you when it's ready to collect.Please go to uk.tlscontact.com/za which will explain how to proceed and where your nearest agency office is. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za