The novel follows the lives of Ruby and Verity from childhood into young adulthood, while World War 2 erupts in the background.But it is Wilby, an elderly widow who was unable to have children of her own, who encompasses the heart of the tale: ''Sadly girls who have been brought up without love or guidance almost inevitably fall into the arms of the first sweet-talking man who comes along."10+ fascinating talks not to miss at The Franschhoek Literary FestivalWilby's wisdom lends strength to Ruby and Verity as they face their many struggles. The wise character was drawn from Pearse's own childhood guiding lights. However, she admits: ''My younger self took some time to value that wisdom."Wilby's compassion and empathy are traits that Lesley Pearse brings into much of her work. Her stories caution those who might be quick to judge, while putting her characters through challenging scenarios.''I just love history - ordinary people had it so hard and it's far more fun writing 'grim' scenarios than lovely ones," Pearse explains.Pearse is a self-described ''compulsive storyteller".As a child she was fond of telling lies and tall tales. Yet, due to living a full life of various jobs and parenthood, it wasn't until she was 49 that she published her first book. She now has over 20 titles to her name, with millions of copies sold worldwide, and shows no sign of slowing down.Her next book, The Woman in the Wood, is coming out at the end of June. Set in 1960, the story follows 15-year-old twins Maisy and Duncan who are sent to live with their grandmother after their mother is committed to an asylum. Pearse promises ''danger, horror and darkness''.Pearse's book tour is next week, May 10 to 19, with events in Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town.''I'm thrilled to be coming to South Africa again," she says. "It's a country I love for its colour and the warmth of its people."While in the country the focus of her attention is her fans, but she did confess: ''I'd like to see some of your botanical gardens as I'm a keen gardener." 'Dead to Me' by Lesley Pearse is published by Penguin UK Readers wishing to meet Lesley Pearse should check out her schedule and book tickets via her publisher's website. This article was originally published in The Times.