Where do you come up with your ideas?I work in a converted 18th-century barn at home, but the ideas come on my daily walk with my dog. We walk on 325 hectares of parkland on the UK south coast and that is when my mind wanders to matters of design. Something that isn't looking as good as it should is often resolved after an hour surrounded by nature.</img>Richard Smith. Image: SuppliedRichard Smith. Image: SuppliedDo you think design is an art or a science?It's a mixture of both, which is why I love it. The ideas always start using pure creativity, but the process that takes an idea from a painted piece of artwork to fabric, wallpaper and so on, involves the other half of the brain. We need to draw on all sorts of experiences to turn an idea into a commercial product that people want to live with every day.Your first design project?My art teacher at school gave us some very basic silk screens. I used Matisse's "L'escargot" as inspiration, putting a simple snail shape into repeat and printing it onto cotton.The most rewarding aspect of your job?I'm lucky with my No. 9 Collection as I am basically able to create anything I want. It just has to fit into the aesthetic I have refined since creating the brand 10 years ago - one of casual, relaxed elegance.The most frustrating aspect?Having too many ideas to actually develop fully.What does fabric mean to you in terms of interiors, and what fabrics do you relate to personally?Fabrics bring humanity to a room. They add texture and warmth that work with the architectural elements of a building. Personally, I love linen. It's a very honest fabric, and the imperfections of the yarn bring an extra level to fabric constructions.Something you would like people to know about your work?I design everything by hand; it's a really important part of the process for me. I still go to an art class in London every week, where I paint and draw from life - this helps inform my ideas of form, colour and proportion.</img>Chair upholstered in Zee Urchin, an indoor/outdoor fabric from the No. 9 Thompson Collection. Image: Supplied Chair upholstered in Zee Urchin, an indoor/outdoor fabric from the No. 9 Thompson Collection. Image: Supplied No. 9 Thompson is available locally from T &amp; Co. Fabrics.