Their pieces - bespoke, handcrafted vases, lights, mirrors and other decor elements - reflect the principles of "slow" design and include a conscious effort to slow down, to consider the wellbeing of individuals, society and the natural environment and to reflect this in their work.A merging of centuries-old artisanal techniques with new technologies, the essence of Arkivio Design is a minimalist, modern aesthetic that values meticulous workmanship above all. SA designs a breath of fresh air for famous Swazi glass-blowing factorySurgeson and Rabinowitz have been friends since prep school and began working together just over three years ago. Surgeson has an economics degree while Rabinowitz completed a master's in product design in Milan.Initially they produced terrariums using lead-lighting, usually small stained-glass windows surrounded by lead; their glass, however, is clear."We needed to learn how to solder the lead lights and we were trained by a skilled artisan. The technique was simple but to get the quality right was another story," says Surgeson.The delicate terrariums, perfect frames for aloes and succulents are stark, simple and beautiful.It's a style that's now reflected in their chandeliers and lights. "We were commissioned to create a pendant light," says Surgeson. "It was exploratory but that side of the business grew and lighting is now a large part of it." The light he speaks about was five-and-a-half metres of geometric cubes commissioned by an architect for a client's dining room.The spare, simple lights have something of a period look to them. "People say they remind them of lamps from the old days."Their biggest growth area has been the mirrors, with their sleek, classic look.A post shared by Arkivio (@arkivio_) on Mar 25, 2017 at 10:35pm PDT Arkivio has four employees from the local community who they've trained and upskilled. "Part of our ethos is to hire, train and manufacture locally."Their growth, he believes, is a result of quality workmanship and excellent personalised service. "There is a growing niche out there that values finer touches and attention to detail." For more information visit arkivio.co.za This article was originally published in The Times.