What is the one piece of advice you give clients who are remodelling or building a kitchen? A kitchen needs to be designed around how the family will interact with and use the space. It should be as unique in look and functionality as the people who will be using it.An important element in kitchen design? The flow and spatial relations of a kitchen are really important. The cooking area, refrigeration and prep bowl should make up a triangular configuration to one another. Creating a separate tea and coffee station will ensure that the cooking area is not interrupted. 10 clever design ideas to update your kitchenYour favourite current kitchen trend? Freestanding kitchen units that are more like furniture pieces than built-in cabinetry. I also like texture combinations, such as rough timbers contrasting with metal surfaces andnatural marble tops. For me, it's about kitchens that have soul, rather than a clinical appearance.A trend you wish people would forget? All white, high-gloss, seamless clinical kitchens.Interesting flooring ideas? Pattern tiles add character and "bleeding" them into timber floors creates interesting border lines between open-plan living areas and the kitchen space.And countertop ideas? Marble adds an amazing natural element to a kitchen and Neolith offer great slimline tops with interesting textures.One thing you'd update in a kitchen if you didn't have budget for a full renovation?Remove wall units and add timber floating shelves to create a relaxed caf -type look. This will give an incredible injection of character and a space where you can display beautiful crockery pieces and collectables.Colour or neutrals? Neutral for the "bones" of the kitchen. Add colour with stools, crockery, accessories. Tips to maximise storage space? Drawers allow for far better organisation than cupboards. Last words to get us thinking? Bring out your own personality when designing your kitchen. It should be filled with things you love and that depict your character. After all, it's the heart of your home. Douglas and Douglas produce a beautiful range of freestanding kitchens. Visit douglasanddouglas.co.za.