Andrew, 51, has spent more than three decades underground, doing what some describe as the worst job in the world for a meagre paycheque that can barely feed his family.His eldest son, Tebogo, was headed that way too, before his life took a different turn.Tebogo qualified as a microbiologist and now owns his own laboratory, which conducts microbiology and chemical testing services for mining companies like the one his father works for. Dead battery generates big idea for young KZN scientistTheir story illustrates how a family's fortunes can change in just one generation, and it is not unique.Tebogo is among the 1,016 graduates who have received bursaries from the JB Marks Education Trust Fund, established by the National Union of Mineworkers 20 years ago.The bursary scheme is funded by the Mineworkers Investment Trust through dividends from the Mineworkers Investment Company. The fund has disbursed R286-million to beneficiaries.The trust fund's communications manager, Welsina Sekanka, said about 200 undergraduate and 50 post graduate bursaries were awarded each year. Beneficiaries had graduated in fields such as engineering, medicine, accounting, business management, health sciences and humanities.Tebogo, 34, told this week how he had almost missed out on the bursary that changed his life."When I finished matric, we did not know about the fund."I remember the first year at Tshwane University of Technology. It was really hard for my family. My father was hardly at home. He took extra shifts to supplement his salary. The family had to cut out all luxury items like meat. Most days we ate pap and cabbage. All the money the family had was invested in my studies."Out of frustration, my mother begged me to quit school and join my father in the mines."She couldn't bear seeing her other children suffering, but dad couldn't allow it. I was also tempted to quit. Seeing my young siblings suffer because of me was too much."The solution came when Andrew found out about the scholarship in time for Tebogo's second year. Today Tebogo owns his own company, BioSel Lab Solutions, where he employs 13 people.He has also helped pay for renovations to a house his father bought after taking a package and opting to work on contract. Tebogo employs his younger brother and sister in his lab.</img>Microbiologist Tebogo Selekolo with his father, Andrew, left, who has worked on mines all his life. Image: MASI LOSI Microbiologist Tebogo Selekolo with his father, Andrew, left, who has worked on mines all his life. Image: MASI LOSIProud dad Andrew said he was happy his son had received a better education than he had. "The bursary made it easier. I finished school in Form 2 [Grade 8] and the only thing I could do was mining."Tebogo's high school teachers praised his cleverness and that motivated me more in ensuring he achieve his dreams."Another beneficiary of the fund, Johannes Khampepe, said the best "inheritance" he could have received from his father was registering him for the bursary scheme in 2010, before he died.Khampepe, 26, had no relationship with his father. His mother died while he was in high school and he was raised by his grandmother in Welkom. She could not afford his tertiary education.He applied for National Student Financial Aid Scheme funding but was declined."By the time I accidentally met my uncle, who worked at Allanridge gold mine with my dad, I had given up on furthering my studies and was working at a restaurant. He managed to convince my father to send an application."Khampepe studied information technology at the Central University of Technology in Bloemfontein and scored an internship with the premier's office in the Free State, which led to similar internships in India and Portugal."I haven't had an offer since I came back from Portugal last month, but I am more positive about the future now than seven years ago," he said. "I'm more equipped and skilled now for this job."</img>Nandipha Tselanyane with her father, Ndala Spencer. He is struggling after retiring from mine work - but it at least gave his daughter access to higher education. Image: SUPPLIED Nandipha Tselanyane with her father, Ndala Spencer. He is struggling after retiring from mine work - but it at least gave his daughter access to higher education. Image: SUPPLIED One of the big achievements Ndala Spencer, 60, can show for all the years he worked on mines is his daughter Nandipha Tselanyane, 28, who graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand with a law degree in 2013 and started her own labour law practice in Germiston, east of Johannesburg, this year.Spencer is in the Eastern Cape, trying to rebuild his own life after spending years on mines in Rustenburg, Klerksdorp and Carletonville."It is hard to see a man of his age broke and having to start from scratch," Tselanyane said. "What he earned was not enough for the family to save up for retirement."But, she said, she was happy she was now in a position to assist her family financially.ndabenik@sundaytimes.co.za