Mthethwa, who participated in this year's Caf Under-20 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) in Zambia, helped South Africa qualify for the Fifa Under-20 World Cup and is part of the 21-man squad that is currently in South Korea.Where are you from? Where did your love of the game come from?I was born in Ngwelezane, a township in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal. I have three siblings, and it was my late brother who introduced me to football.I started playing at the age of eight. The first junior team I played for was Shooting Stars FC, and that is where development began for me. Transfermalitis and drawmalitis plague ChiefsIn 2011, when I was 14 years old, I played for Flamingo FC, a club in the SAB League. Then in 2013, when I was in Grade 12, I was selected to join the KwaZulu-Natal Academy through provincial trials. I played for Durban FC, which was part of the KwaZulu-Natal Academy, and we took part in the Durban Under-19 International Tournament.I was then invited to the Portuguese outfit Maritimo. I believe I impressed the Maritimo management because they made me a deal - that I would have signed in February 2015, however, I chose to sign with Orlando Pirates in January 2015. Two years later (2017), I was selected by coach Thabo Senong to the under-20 team and by the grace of the Almighty, I played in the Caf Under-20 Afcon in Zambia earlier this year. Now I am about to take part in the Fifa Under-20 World Cup.That is amazing. What was your first reaction when you received your first call-up to the national team?My first call-up was in February for the Caf Under-20 Afcon and, to be honest, I wasn't expecting it because I had not played that many games for Orlando Pirates.But I was very excited and nervous at the same time - I questioned so many things, such as why me, am I that good, what if this and that. When I got to camp for the first time I was still very much in my shell, but there were players I knew in the squad and they welcomed me with warm arms. Now I am comfortable with everyone in the team and I can easily express myself.Five caps for Amajita so far since February, that's a great achievement. How do you feel about that and being in the World Cup squad as well?I do not have the words to express my gratitude, but I believe I can still earn more caps. It has always been my dream to represent my country since I was still playing in the SAB League.All this happened by the grace of God, hard work and the support from my family.Being in the 21-man squad for the Fifa Under-20 World Cup is a great honour and I'm looking forward to helping the team go further in the tournament.