The International Association of Antarctic Tour Operators (IAATO) on Monday released its 2016/2017 tourism figures ahead of its annual meeting in Edinburgh Scotland.The total number of visitors travelling to Antarctica with IAATO members was 44 367 an increase of 15% on the previous year the IAATO said in a statement.7 weird facts on AntarcticaMost travel to the continent is seaborne. However there has been an increase in deep field travel into the interior from South Africa and South America.Deep field tourism when visitors fly to the Antarctic interior for excursions from South Africa or South America saw an increase of 10% on the previous year. This category only accounts for 1% of Antarctic tourism.IAATO executive committee chairperson Bob Simpson said it is important to keep travel to Antarctica sustainable. Visiting Antarctica is a great privilege for anyone. Our goal is to provide our guests with a safe enriching experience while leaving no discernible evidence of our visit. With demand for Antarctic tourism staying robust our members experience in developing and delivering sustainable operations over the past 25 years will be of huge benefit in supporting the long-term conservation of Antarctica. The IAATO reported that overall there has been a steady increase in the cruise sector of the tourism industry since 2011/2012. It estimated that in 2017/2018 the number of visitors to Antarctica will increase by a further 5% to 46 385 visitors.Ninety-eight percent of travellers depart from South America to the Antarctic Peninsula. The majority of these tourists travel from Chile or Argentina on vessels carrying fewer than 500 passengers and offer excursions ashore. The sector grew by 20% in 2016/2017 largely due to the introduction of two vessels into the market. Reader's World: A South African in Antarctica The air-cruise sector in which tourists fly to the Antarctic Peninsula before joining a cruise vessel showed the most growth at 36% comparable to recent years.Tourists cruising into the Antarctic Peninsula without making landings ashore declined by 8%.Most Antarctic tourists were Americans followed by Chinese Australian German and British tourists. American visitors remained the most numerous increasing by 7% in 2016-2017 and accounting for 33% of the total number. The number of Chinese visitors increased by 25% compared to the previous year moving them up to second place behind the USA. Australian German and British visitors were the next most abundant nationalities increasing by 5% 45% and 19% respectively the IAATO said.The IAATO's members are governed by the Antarctic Treaty System which requires tour operators to refrain from making any landings in Antarctica from vessels carrying more than 500 passengers.Operators must also coordinate trips so that there are no clashes at landing sites. Only one vessel may visit a landing site at a time.