He didn't bank on people digging into his investment. The healthcare tycoon from New Delhi this week added his voice to a chorus of protest against sand mining in one of South Africa's top wine-producing areas, where he owns a share of a grand winery. He joins other high-profile wine farmers affected by sand mining in the Paardeberg area of the Swartland. Although Singh's Roundstone vineyards - which he co-owns with prominent winemakers Chris and Andrea Mullineux - are about 10km from the mining activity, he sources fruit from vineyards where mining activity is just 500m away.Singh said he believed sand mining could have "a detrimental effect on wine tourism and South Africa's reputation as a producer of top-quality wines". 23 reasons why SA is 'blessed with treasures', according to CNNHe added: "New permits may create a precedent that might have a considerable effect on the sustainability of the wine and wine tourism industries. Appropriate consideration to the full extent of the damage of sand mining should be the key focus before irrevocable damage is being done."With two legal sand-mining sites currently operational in the Swartland region and two recently approved by the Swartland municipality, as well as another one being considered for approval, I am concerned about the negative impact that mining development might have on the sustainability of the wine and tourism industries, as well as the character of the Swartland and the community as whole." Singh is a household name in Franschhoek, where he famously bought two entire blocks. His list of acquisitions includes three adjoining wine farms, one of which has been developed into the ultra-luxurious 17-room Leeu Estates that makes next-door neighbour Richard Branson seem a little tatty. But his influence will be tested in the Swartland, where sand mining has the support of many farmers, and where the municipality has already approved rezoning applications for various mining operations. Municipal manager Joggie Scholtz said: "Every landowner has the right to do certain things within the limitations of the zoning scheme."I think the challenge is to get the right balance between the two interests - wine farming and tourism, and mining." One of the affected farmers, Eben Sadie, said mining and wine tourism were mutually exclusive."To date there is no proof that mining and eco-tourism could coexist. The only proof is that most of the Cape Winelands heavily rely on the landscape and the pristine form thereof to drive their tourism and sales," Sadie said. "The argument is that sand, a low-value mineral, is also needed, but is this honestly the best place to mine the mineral in amongst some of the most celebrated wines in the Cape's vineyards?" Other well-known labels linked to the region include Anthonij Rupert Wines, Vinimark Wine Distribution, Boekenhoutskloof Wines and Lammershoek Winery. Farmers insisted that sand mining was a valuable source of income, was of limited duration, and had limited environmental impact. "I am mining on low-potential wheat fields that are not suitable for grain production," said Paardeberg farmer Liam Viljoen. "I use it to make silage for my cattle. When we are finished, I will still be able to use it for the same purpose as before mining the area."