Two recent additions to Cape Town s vegan food scene are hip hangouts, which are just as alluring for omnivores in search of a healthy and satisfying meal.Toby Scheckter s vibey cafe in Sea Point s Regent Road is all about making vegan food healthy, interesting and delicious. After building up an organic energy drink business in New York, he returned home to find a gap in the market. There was nothing on offer here delivering a tasty and delicious vegan meal. Vegan seemed to mean carrots and boring, says Toby. I wanted something that left you satisfied on all fronts. You don t have to be a vegan to enjoy a meal here. The varied menu covers a world of flavours, from the pumpkin pie flapjacks to the poke bowl, the Thai red curry, the best vegan burger, wraps and salads, and divinely decadent raw desserts such as the Snickers Bar. But Scheckter s Raw isn t entirely a raw food restaurant. We ve redefined what raw means for us to signify honest, plant-based, nutrient-dense food. Probably 60% of the menu is actually raw food I believe some cooked food is good for health. 4 vegetarian recipes to whip up on a #MeatFreeMondayPopping into this chic, sparkly bar just off Bree Street, you d be forgiven for not realising you re in a vegan restaurant. Pizzas, waffles and a house burger speak of comfort food, but there are healthy clues in the vegan mozzarella, vanilla coconut ice-cream, Sweet Potato Fries and the Oh Sweet Kim burger made from sweet potato, lentil and quinoa. Owners Amy and Brent started a stall at the V&amp;A Waterfront Food Market, realising their dream of their own vegan cafe last year. Our vision was to create food that tastes so great that meat-eaters also want to eat here, to show everyone how good vegan food can be, encouraging them to include more plant-based food in their diet. We called ourselves The Hungry Herbivore for a reason we want you to come hungry and leave feeling satisfied. Most of the menu is cooked, but there is a raw pizza option and the desserts are also raw and organic. There s no chance of anyone going home hungry! This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.