What shade of nail polish should their car match? How important is it to reach 100km/h in under three seconds? And is there any reason not to buy a cloth car cover costing the same as ordinary mortals spend on an actual car? Oh, and by the way, the cover is designed to protect the car indoors.Sales of limousines and high-performance sports cars are showing much more resilience against a potential recession than the main market. Supercar distributor Daytona sells 40 Aston Martins and 30 McLarens in an average year, and Aston Martin marketer Gcina Lukhele expects the same in 2017.That's in stark contrast to the overall new-vehicle market. Numbers released this week by the Department of Trade and Industry show that sales in April were at their lowest monthly level since December 2009. Admittedly, the proliferation of public holidays limited sales opportunities, but most analysts think the market for 2017 as a whole will shrink for the fourth year in a row.That's desperate news for a motor industry that, until recently, thought the worst was over and was looking forward to a market revival. But that was before South Africa's credit downgrade to junk status and the general air of economic despondency that has settled upon us since.The continued slowdown in sales is not for want of trying. Consumers are anxious to buy, but banks, bound by credit and consumer protection regulations, are turning down more than 50% of applications for vehicle finance.Rudolf Mahoney, at WesBank, said rejections were taking place across the board, from entry-level cars to luxury.But what about super-luxury? Do Ferrari, Rolls-Royce and Aston Martin customers share our pain, or is the occasional interest rate rise or currency slump irrelevant when the price tag is a blur of zeros?Local Ferrari chief operating officer Jan Ungerer said: "Market conditions dictate the purchasing power of the wealthy as well."However, credit is often not required. Lukhele said many of his customers traded in a vehicle and settled the difference with cash.Rolls-Royce general manager Marek Letowt said: "Political uncertainty puts brakes on spending in all segments, but South Africans are resilient and quickly return to their buying habits as long as the political uncertainty hasn't directly impacted them or their businesses."It's possible to spend up to R40-million on a car, if you absolutely must be seen in a Bugatti. And it's very easy to blow R1-million. Believe it or not, more than 300 car models on sale in South Africa cost seven figures.Many of those are sold under the Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Audi and Range Rover labels. For some buyers, however, a more exclusive brand is required. Ferrari, whose cars range in price between R4.4-million and R9.8-million, sold 17 cars in South Africa in the first four months of the year. Maserati sold 49, Bentley 30 and Porsche 404.Porsche is a special case, bridging the price gap between expensive and eye-watering. With cars costing from R870000 for the Cayman to R3.4-million for the 911 Turbo, it positions itself as the "affordable" supercar brand.Spokesman Christo Kruger said high-worth customers weren't immune to "the ebb and flow of economic difficulties" but because South African specialist car companies had limited stock to sell, they didn't rely on high volumes in the way that mass-market brands did."We have an allocation that we are able to match to demand," he said.Most customers in this top bracket are able to customise their cars to a remarkable degree. A Porsche customer may wait six months for the car to be built to order and delivered. For Rolls-Royce or Bentley, the wait is even longer. Options include not just paint colour (a Saudi princess once demanded her car match her nail polish) and interior design, but also solid-silver symbols, lamb's wool floor mats, fitted picnic hampers and personalised car covers.As a result, said Letowt, owners kept their cars longer because "their creation is a reflection of the individual or family that is buying the car".Lukhele said a typical Aston Martin or McLaren customer kept a vehicle for two years before trading it in for a newer model of the same brand.For Ferrari, Ungerer said, it's between three and five years.In most cases, they will not have many kilometres on the clock. Some may be driven daily but others are wheeled out mainly at weekends or holidays. They are status symbols, boys' (and, increasingly, girls') toys.At current exchange rates, a new Aston Martin DB11 costs R3.95-million and a McLaren 570S R3.5-million. A Rolls-Royce Dawn comes in at around R8-million. But what happens if the rand crashes between order and delivery, sending up the price?Kruger said: "Buyers in this market consider their purchases carefully, but if the price goes up before delivery, a Porsche customer has the option to decline the deal. It rarely happens."There seems little likelihood of demand for these exclusive cars tapering off. Status and money will always find ways to meet. Letowt said there was already a local waiting list for the new Phantom, which isn't due until the end of the year. A similar reception is assured for Rolls-Royce's first SUV, which is more than a year away."There will always be a market for desirable cars," said Kruger. "We must just make sure we handle that demand correctly."furlongerd@sundaytimes.co.za