No one looked at the blonde in a gold frock. Instead, the audience goggled at the 71-year-old who wore an outfit that's best described as a sheer black body-stocking with strategically placed sequins.She added a vast Brian May wig and leather jacket to top it off.Cher once declared: "Until you're ready to look foolish, you'll never have the possibility of being great." You can't say she doesn't walk that particular sartorial tightrope in superb fashion. She modelled two eye-popping outfits on Sunday, both of which seemed fashioned from sheer tights and a jar of rhinestones.Keen followers of pop noted that the sheer black outfit the singer donned for her second song during the awards was wittily modelled on an ensemble she wore in 1989.Even more show-stopping though, for lovers of Liberace-style spectacle, was the silver-spangled scrap-of-nothing she wore during her first performance on the night, accessorised with one puce heart-shaped nipple cover and a platinum-blonde, Cleopatra-styled wig with pink tips.</img>Cher performing during the 2017 Billboard Music Awards in Las Vegas. Image: Gallo/GettyCher performing during the 2017 Billboard Music Awards in Las Vegas. Image: Gallo/GettyOnly the hardest hearted would deny the fact: age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety performances. True, for a minute I was put in mind of Cristal Connors in Paul Verhoeven's cult classic movie Showgirls, who says snarkily to her understudy: "I'm getting a little too old for that whorey look."Piers Morgan expressed disdain at her sartorial choices from the safety of the Good Morning Britain sofa, but admitted that it's hard to deem someone ridiculous if they've already made it clear they don't give a damn about dignity and age-appropriate attire.Perhaps the most appealing thing about Cher is that she never seems to be billing herself as a sex goddess, unlike that other great stayer Madonna, who at 58 appears grimly determined to project a vision of her own yoga-taut hotness to the public.Cher is the ultimate vaudeville hoofer, embracing camp excess as her birthright.There's a Mardi Gras sensibility to her performances, which makes you want to shed your own years, leap on stage and shimmy alongside her. It's fitting that this performance took place in Vegas, where more is never enough and vulgarity's a virtue.Furthermore, most women will know how the pop star feels about trotting out old outfits. When a mature female can still model ensembles she first wore aged 20 or 30, then she absolutely wants the whole world to know about it.If the Princess Royal (Anne) can perform public duties in outfits from the 1980s and pass it off as parsimony (when surely it's a subtle form of boasting about her ageless figure?), well why can't Cher recycle her old Spandex? And, frankly, if she can do a "five-minute plank" - as she boasted when handed her award - then she's rewriting the laws of nature and should be allowed to tear up the age-appropriate rule book as she pleases.When you look at this great survivor, you don't see mutton dressed as lamb, you see Cher dressed as Cher. - The Daily Telegraph This article was originally published in the Times.