Their chase was as beguiling as it was thunderous as they stretched their unbeaten run against South African opposition to 14 matches.Their opposition happened to be the hapless, hornless Bulls who, to be fair, were battered and bruised from recent skirmishes against New Zealand opposition. They took another pummelling here. Lions in for 'hardest rugby of their lives'The Lions drew blood from the moment they got their hands on the ball, and they continued to strike at the heart of the Bulls like matadors against a helpless beast.The home crowd, for so long left mum and glum in trans-Jukskei derbies, raucously delighted in their team's try-seeking pursuits.The Lions are finely tuned. Their camaraderie is self-evident in the way they set about their business, in attack and defence. They display similar faith in their quick-tempo game plan which all too often leaves the opposition hyperventilating.It was the Bulls' turn yesterday and though the visitors scored first-half tries through the classy Jan Serfontein and Jesse Kriel, the Lions had already played themselves into bonus- point territory by the break.They were daring and dashing, but it helps when you're lithe of limb and sharp of sense. As a result they were always one, if not two, steps ahead of the Bulls.They broke the Bulls' backs with five first-half tries, but the visitors showed greater resolve in the second half.The hosts' virtuoso first-half display, however, settled it. Elton Jantjies cut a commanding presence as did captain Warren Whiteley, Courtnall Skosan, Ruan Ackermann, Franco Mostert and Ruan Combrinck.The Lions asked tough questions of the Bulls defence. Ruan Steenkamp, Serfontein and Hanro Liebenberg stood tall for the Bulls in that department. The Bulls' game at times found traction in the scrums but there was little else over which they could enthuse.The Lions, however, mainly through Jantjies and willing and able chasers, found ways over the defence. The Lions went the aerial route, which provided tries for Combrinck, Kwagga Smith and Ruan Dreyer.Combrinck's sumptuous chip and gather was pure class clearly demonstrating his touch had not abandoned him during his long lay-off. It touched those in the stands who greeted his dive over the tryline with a roar of approval.Combrinck wasn't even supposed to be in the match-day squad, let alone the starting line-up. Sylvian Mahuza was named in the side but was injured in practice on Thursday.In Smith's case the ball bounced away from the Bulls defence and tantalisingly lingered in the air for a speeding Skosan to run onto it.The Lions earned this win with a priceless bonus point, which will prove crucial when the league stages draw to a close. They will need little reminding of the importance of contesting league supremacy until the end. Easy prey like the Bulls will get mauled in the process. SCORERSLions (51) Tries: Ruan Combrinck (2), Kwagga Smith, Ruan Dreyer, Warren Whiteley, Franco Mostert, Lionel Mapoe. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (5). Penalties: Jantjies (2).Bulls (14) Tries: Jan Serfontein, Jesse Kriel. Conversions: Francois Brummer (2).