The attack was brutal. When they were done, one person was dead and several more lay injured.The lethal assault happened in an unlikely place - a men's residence on the campus of Walter Sisulu University in Mthatha.The assailants were not thugs who had breached the university's perimeter fence. Some of them were medical students - students who had chosen a career dedicated to saving lives.Doctors want inquiry into violent campus after student murderThe pointless death of final-year medical student Lwando Mantshontsho, 23, last week was the culmination of a drunken brawl between fifth- and sixth-year medical students that had started earlier in the day, in which the seniors allegedly attacked the juniors with sjamboks.The reason for the attack was even more bizarre. The drinking spree, according to several students, had started with a discussion about which luxury cars the students would buy and the kind of lifestyles they would lead once they had qualified.As more beer was consumed, tempers flared as the juniors felt the seniors did not respect them. A fight ensued and the seniors fled, but returned with sjamboks.A final-year medical student, who did not want to be named because he may have to testify in the upcoming trial, described the events."We were having drinks in res and talking about our future plans once we graduate and start working."He said he went outside to smoke and after a few minutes saw some of his peers running out of the res, being chased by one of the juniors."I went back inside and [the junior] said we think we are better than them because we are seniors, and we think they are small boys."Knives were drawn, but the juniors took a beating until campus security stepped in and broke up the fight. The students went to bed, but the juniors soon regrouped and, after recruiting students from the education faculty to boost their numbers, descended on the senior residence for the ambush.</img>Lwando Mantshontsho's mother, Nomvuyiso (in black), at a memorial service in Mthatha this week for the slain final-year medical student. Image: LULAMILE FENILwando Mantshontsho's mother, Nomvuyiso (in black), at a memorial service in Mthatha this week for the slain final-year medical student. Image: LULAMILE FENI"They started banging on my door, they had knives and a panga," said a student who did not want to be named. "They broke down the door. I was scared for my life. They started to beat me with their fists. Lwando was asleep in his room by that time. I managed to escape and went to open a case of assault with the police. While at the police station I got an SMS saying that these guys were attacking Lwando," he said.Five students, facing charges of murder, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and malicious damage to property, appeared in the Mthatha Magistrate's Court on Monday.They are Sindile Kango, 21, a first-year economics student; third-year medical student Yamkela Mxokozeli, 23; fourth-year medical student Siphesihle Mafungwa, 21; third-year education student Philani Danca, 23; and first-year medical student Lwakhe Matakane, 20. They were remanded in custody until May 26.Mantshontsho's death has highlighted a culture of violence, ill-discipline and insufficient security on the campus.Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi, who visited the campus this week, said some students had become criminals, killing and robbing others."Some are armed with guns and knives instead of being armed with pens and laptops," he said.The South African Medical Association has asked the Presidency and the Department of Higher Education to open an inquiry into problems at the university, while Mkongi announced a national summit on campus and school safety to be held in July.</img>Lwando Mantshontsho, the murdered WSU final year medical student, was one of the mourners who attended his moving memorial service in Mthatha. Image: SUPPLIED Lwando Mantshontsho, the murdered WSU final year medical student, was one of the mourners who attended his moving memorial service in Mthatha. Image: SUPPLIEDMantshontsho family representative Mncedisi Mfukula said the family, who live in Cofimvaba, were devastated by the killing, as they had high hopes for Lwando, who was studying on a Health Department bursary."He was going to be the first doctor in our family. We ... sent him to school to get an education but now he comes back dead," Mfukula said.Mthatha campus rector Jay Njadezweni said lack of funds contributed to the institution's difficulty in addressing security issues. He said the campus had about 13,000 students and only 3,000 beds, which "means we also have a problem of squatting by students, which is hard to curb".A former president of the Health Sciences Faculty Society, Yomelela Mnqamashe , slammed the "act of violence". He said: "This came as a shock and embarrassment to our faculty, where we have programmes that teach us about discipline and good behaviour as health officials ."Mantshontsho's murder is not an isolated case.In the past several years, six students have been murdered by fellow students on various campuses that fall under the Mthatha university.Student representative council leader Mzingisi Faku - who was hospitalised earlier this year after being stabbed by students during political infighting - said lack of security was to blame, citing poor access control and ineffective security guards.He also said the university failed to address social issues, and this was why there were violent incidents on campus.