To keep your skin glowing throughout the colder months, you'll need to make a few of these simple tweaks to your beauty regime:One of the easiest ways to change your moisturiser into a richer cream is by mixing in oil. Choose a dry facial oil that absorbs easily into the skin by itself to ensure that your moisturiser doesn t become too greasy once you've mixed the oil in. Add a few drops of the oil to your moisturiser and apply as normal.Try: Nuxe Huile Prodigieuse Multi-Purpose Dry Oil 100ml, R425. Serums are a vital part of your beauty routine as their concentrated formulas assist in treating all sorts of skin woes. For winter, switch to a serum that is either hydrating or brightening to combat your skin losing its lustre. Look for serums that contain hyaluronic acid or vitamin C.Try: Filorga Hyal Defence Hyaluronic Acid Protection Serum, R910. Get on top of your face masking game with this quick guideMasks are a bonus treat that your skin will always thank you for. Though you can use a hydrating mask, a brightening mask that also provides a mild exfoliation is a great way to prep your skin for the rich serums and moisturisers you'll apply afterwards. Try: Dior Life Glow Better Fresh Jelly Mask, R965. Eye creams may seem like an unnecessary step in your skincare routine, but the delicate skin around your eyes is one of the first that's affected by the change of season. Whether you prefer a gel or creamy eye cream, make sure you apply it daily along your under eye and on your temples to combat dehydration and fine lines. Try: Estee Lauder Advanced Night Repair Eye, R805, and CHANEL Sublimage La Cr me Yeux, R2,880. How to get your natural hair winter-readyWhile great skincare makes your coverage look like a million bucks, the wrong type of foundation can make you skin look like it s not at its best. During winter think of foundation as part of your skincare and opt for a serum foundation that'll treat your skin while giving a radiant finish. If you require more coverage, rather use a concealer to spot correct.Try: Bobbi Brown Intensive Skin Serum Foundation SPF 40, R765. 