But last week it was Obiang who was in trouble as the High Court in Cape Town heard final argument in a case that could lead to the attachment of his South African assets in preparation for Janse van Rensburg's R75-million civil claim.That is the estimated value of Obiang's Cape Town properties: a double-storey house in Clifton and a Bishopscourt mansion.The South African was held for 423 days in Black Beach prison in Malabo, capital of Equatorial Guinea, after an aviation deal with one of Obiang's family members turned sour. He said he was tortured and humiliated. He also contracted typhoid, malaria and hepatitis, which nearly caused his death.</img>Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue faces charges in France, where he is accused of corruption and money laundering. Image: AFP PHOTO / ABDELHAK SENNA Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue faces charges in France, where he is accused of corruption and money laundering. Image: AFP PHOTO / ABDELHAK SENNAJanse van Rensburg languished in jail while Obiang, son of President Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mbasogo, enjoyed a lavish lifestyle with yachts, luxury cars - including four bought on holiday in South Africa - and properties around the world.Obiang, known as Teodorin, faces charges in France, where he is accused of corruption and money laundering.The Cape Town properties are on a long list of his assets already seized or earmarked for seizure around the world.Other listed assets reportedly include a Parisian mansion seized by French authorities in 2012, a Malibu mansion, a Ferrari, a Lamborghini, a Bugatti, an Aston Martin and 76m superyacht Ebony Shine, seized in the Netherlands at the behest of the Swiss authorities.Obiang's brief business association with Janse van Rensburg prompted outrage in South Africa two years ago when not even pressure from Pretoria diplomats could secure the South African's freedom.In the end, a chance meeting with a fellow prisoner led to his release. But he was stuck in the South African embassy for 120 days as the authorities would not let him leave the country."Eventually they said: 'Now you can leave.' And I flew out. It was a miracle," Janse van Rensburg told the Sunday Times this week."When I finally got home my whole community was there to welcome me. I felt alive again."Obiang brandished his diplomatic immunity in a bid to have the lawsuit quashed, and denied any involvement in Janse van Rensburg's arrest.He swore a statement saying he had spent millions of rands upgrading his Cape Town properties, but they had stood empty since he bought them in 2013."Since I have purchased these two properties, I have not once occupied or spent one night staying over," he said.</img> This Clifton house is one of two Cape Town properties of Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue that may be attached in preparation for the civil claim against him by Daniel Janse van Rensburg. Image: RUVAN BOSHOFFThis Clifton house is one of two Cape Town properties of Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue that may be attached in preparation for the civil claim against him by Daniel Janse van Rensburg. Image: RUVAN BOSHOFF"Both properties are empty and unfurnished. If and when I travel to the Republic of South Africa for any reason whatsoever, I do not stay in any of the two properties. For obvious security protocols and reasons I cannot disclose where I do stay when I am in South Africa."Janse van Rensburg's lawyer, Amish Kika, said last week's court hearing was "for the purpose of confirming jurisdiction for a case to be brought against Obiang in South Africa".Kika disputed the claim that Obiang's diplomatic immunity extended to his Cape Town properties. "We are also arguing that those houses are not used for diplomatic purposes."Obiang's lawyer could not be reached for comment. Judgment is expected soon.