Mdoda was recently awarded the best talkshow host gong at the South African Film and Television Awards and has also become the first woman to host a commercial radio breakfast show (she's on 94.7 Highveld Stereo), but she is not one to rest on her laurels. She is constantly striving to do even more, even better.In March, Mdoda's SABC3 variety talkshow, Real Talk with Anele, moved to a prime-time slot (5pm-6pm) and started broadcasting live for the first time. This has created a lot more pressure for Mdoda - "I do have too much to do, n ?" she says - but she is taking it in her stride.David Kau ropes in a fake family to get show on the roadHer day starts at 3.30am, after she has hit the snooze button on her alarm once. "I set two other alarms after and do not press snooze again."Then she's up, in the shower, makes a shake, grabs her computer and bag and arrives at work by 4am. Thirty minutes later there is a group discussion about the upcoming show before Mdoda hits the airwaves at 6am."The listeners tune in at 6am," she says, "but it wouldn't work if I wasn't already tuned in at 4am. I would rather deal with the pain of waking up early than deal with a show that isn't good. My team can tell you that if for some reason a show does not go well, I will be depressed for a good five hours afterwards."The show ends at 9am, after which Mdoda and her team spend a couple of hours doing a postmortem and preparing for the next show.Then she takes an hour off to be with her 21-month-old son, Alakhe. She has the support of "two awesome nannies" in caring for him, but no matter how busy her schedule she will feed Alakhe lunch and make sure she spends time with him."Even if he's sleeping, I will just get into bed with him and nap for an hour before I head to my next workplace," she says.The next workplace is Steyn City near Fourways, where her production company Cheeky Media shoots her talkshow. It is similar in concept to The Oprah Winfrey Show, Felicia and 3Talk With Noeleen, but Mdoda has put a fresh spin on the variety show with her vibrant personality, casual lingo and mostly youthful guests.On the day of our interview, Mdoda was all spark and fire, exerting a commanding presence over the entire set. Her interviewee was the rapper Nasty C, who appeared rather intimidated by Mdoda, no matter how much she tried to relax him by joking around during commercial breaks.Mdoda is no diva, no matter how powerful her presence. Many a TV queen might yell at her personal assistant for forgetting to remove the makeup scarf from her shoulders before the next segment of filming begins. When it happens on her set, Mdoda just chuckles when the scarf is whipped off as the director shouts: "And we're live!"</img>Brandon Eilers Le Riche sweeps Anele Mdoda off her feet on 'Strictly Come Dancing'. Image: CATHY PINNOCK & MOELETSI MABEBrandon Eilers Le Riche sweeps Anele Mdoda off her feet on 'Strictly Come Dancing'. Image: CATHY PINNOCK & MOELETSI MABEHer no-nonsense, unassuming attitude and perfectionist tendencies have helped her succeed in a demanding industry. She started working in radio in 2004, co-hosting a campus radio show with her friend Grant Nash while she was a politics and international relations student at the University of Pretoria. Three years later she and Nash were scooped up by Joburg-based Highveld Stereo, and in 2008 they were poached by national radio station 5FM.That year Mdoda was also selected as one of the celebrity contestants in the fifth season of Strictly Come Dancing. She made it all the way to the finale, kick-starting a rapidly flowering career on television. Her credits since then include co-hosting SA's Got Talent and judging both the Miss South Africa pageant and the singing competition Clash of the Choirs.In 2013, Mdoda hosted the M-Net reality series Dream School SA, then signed on to co-host the show Tongue in Cheek. The latter was an epic fail but it opened the way for her to do her own talkshow, starting in 2016. She is also working on a new show in partnership with Thabo "Tbo Touch" Molefe.Everyone is talking about Mdoda now, but many of her previous successes have gone unremarked because she is not one to blow her own trumpet. "I don't throw party launches and always announce what I am doing," she says. "I don't believe in celebrating myself all the time, especially not in the beginning. The beginning of something is not an event - the event is consistency and seeing the product constantly growing.Noah & Thusi: who's cool according to SA's youth"I started working the hardest when I was 25, when my mom was sick. I threw myself into work to avoid breaking down when she passed away."Mdoda is the third of four daughters and not the only famous face in the family - her older sister Thembisa hosts the hugely popular Mzansi Magic reality show Our Perfect Wedding. Not long ago the sisters discovered that they have a half-brother, when their dad told them about 11-year-old Lulo, who lives with his mother in Johannesburg."We only found out about our brother two years ago," says Mdoda. "He's very dramatic, like Zama (the youngest daughter, who is studying in New York). Zama is the most special but I think my father's favourite is (oldest sister) Unathi."It's hard to tell: when my father talks to me on the phone he makes me feel like the only child. He gives each of us our time in the sun. His motto is that he's only as happy as his unhappiest child."She maintains strong friendships with, among others, comedian Trevor Noah, entrepreneur and radio host Sizwe Dhlomo, marketing expert Khaya Dlanga and advertising guru Xolisa Dyeshana. In 2009, blogger Mika Stefano humorously dubbed them "the Fourways Mafia".Despite their divergent paths and hectic schedules they still carve out time to see each other: their most recent reunion was a joint trip to see Noah, after he became host of The Daily Show, in New York.But through it all, Mdoda's son remains at the centre of her world."I used to be a control freak," she says, "but Alakhe now controls my life. I am trying to give him a secure sense of structure and teach him a work ethic that will help him in his future. I never want my son to feel I was not a good enough role model. I want him to be happy because he is watching a happy person live her life."Why do you love Beyonc ?I love her work ethic.What comes most naturally to you?Laughter.How do you remain true to yourself?Reflect, chastise, reprimand and sleep a lot when I can. On Saturdays I don't even bath - I spend the whole weekend in my pyjamas, reading and sleeping.Who would you most love to have on your show?Oprah Winfrey, Gra a Machel, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Michelle Obama, Mamphela Ramphele, President Jacob Zuma, Khanyi Dhlomo, Shonda Rhimes and Glen Lewis.Your first paycheque?I earned R4,500 at my first job at 94.7, where I did the graveyard shift. I spent my first month's salary on La Mer face cream.