What used to be dubbed the Wine and Malt Whisky Affair has seen some subtle changes, and this year the popular annual event will shift its focus to replace wine with top-drawer gin to tap into the growing trend towards the spirit once dubbed mother s ruin . Another evolution is that we re dropping the word malt from the name, says Wade Bales. Malt usually refers to Scottish whisky, and we re seeing huge interest in Irish whiskeys at the moment. At the event we ll have some wonderful Irish whiskeys available, including Tullamore Dew and the Yellow Spot, Red Spot and Green Breast Irish pot still whiskeys. Distilling the essence of South Africa's gin revolutionThe Irish tipples will be among more than 50 limited edition and rare whiskies being poured, including the likes of Dalwhinnie, Aberlour and Singleton of Dufftown. A handful of whiskies from Japan and India will also be available.Punters should also listen out for the Half-Time bell, when exhibitors will be pouring a rare bottle from their collection. We want to be able to introduce people to a handful of extremely sought-after products, says Wade. Obviously the brands couldn t afford to pour these all night, but during the 15-minute window of the Half-Time bell there is an opportunity to sample from that special bottle each exhibitor keeps under the table. The expertise of the pourers behind the table is another drawcard of the Whisky and Gin Affair, with knowledgeable brand ambassadors to talk you through the intricacies of malting, peat and distilling. It s definitely a key element of the event, says Wade. We try and make sure that people with a real passion for whisky and now, gin are involved. When? Friday 12 May, 6pm 9pm.Where? African Pride 15 on Orange Hotel Cape Town.Tickets? Tickets, R250 per person, are available online via Computicket. Tickets include a complimentary tasting glass, unlimited tastings of all available products on the night, and a buffet selection of gourmet cheese and artisanal breads.Contact: Wadebaleswinesociety.co.za This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.