"Over 22+ years ago this month, a much younger me nervously uttered those 2 small words 'I do'..."I very much still 'do' today and what an exciting journey we've had together since then. We've been blessed Chris Nikoi. Happy anniversary month!" she wrote, above a photo of the couple.The next day, on Table Mountain - after a last-minute decision to hike up Platteklip Gorge with their 16-year-old daughter - she vanished.Despite paternity questions husband to pay bail for baby Siwaphiwe s momOn Thursday, the 46th day she has been missing, Chris Nikoi pleaded with the public to pass on information: any clue that might help the family to get her back unharmed."All we want is her safely back with us and anything else can be overcome," he said. "Every day our daughters call me from the US and they always ask me if there is anything new about their mom."Somebody must have seen something between then and now, someone who looks like her or some movement of people or a neighbour acting a little strange. It is impossible to have a Bermuda Triangle-style disappearance."He advertised that Charlotte "Nana Yaa" Nikoi was missing and that he was offering a handsome reward, with her photo and details, in 15 community newspapers more than a month ago.This week he was handing out flyers in Cape Town's CBD."I cannot sit in my office and I cannot function with my wife missing," said Chris, southern Africa regional director of the UN's World Food Programme.A police spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Andr Traut said on Thursday that there had been no new developments in the investigation.Chris said Charlotte was a supportive wife and devoted to their daughters, aged 16, 20 and 22 and all studying in the US. "My wife would never just walk away from her family and put us through this anguish. By elimination, she must be somewhere against her will."We do not know if she is alive or dead, drugged, starving or in pain. We have absolutely no idea, no clue, and that is very difficult to endure."He and his daughter, who was on the mountain with him that day, wish they had turned around and gone down the mountain with Charlotte when she said she was turning back and would wait for them where they had begun the hike.But she was independent and healthy, and the trail was busy, so they thought it would be no problem to meet up with her later.</img>Charlotte Nikoi is said to be devoted to her daughters. Image: SUPPLIED Charlotte Nikoi is said to be devoted to her daughters. Image: SUPPLIEDChris felt there was something wrong only when he got to the airport for the flight back to Johannesburg and she was not there. "I rationalised that if her phone was dead she would probably take a taxi to the airport. But when we went to check in, she wasn't there and we got no response when we announced it over the PA system."Chris said he and his wife were due to fly on separate flights at the same time.He put his daughter on her flight and delayed his return to that night. "I thought about whether I should stay or go back, and thought Nana Yaa would say to take care of the child."When I landed at 9.30pm I called my daughter and asked: 'Has mommy called you?' When she said 'no', that was when I felt the first pang of real danger and I went straight to the police station at OR Tambo Airport."Chris joined a major search on the mountain but with no success.Johann Marais, the head of Wilderness Search and Rescue, said: "We had 17 volunteers involved in a large search and we found no trace of anything."Bodies have been retrieved from the mountain many years after a person's death and identified by clothing.Chris described his wife as a very kind person, who started her career in banking before working for UN agencies around the world in human resources management. They were both born in Ghana.Charlotte works in New York and he is based in Johannesburg. Anyone with any information on Charlotte's whereabouts is asked to contact Chris on 062-4395-189 or 079-1406-099, or lead investigator, warrant officer Philips on 083-244-3688 TIMELINE: The mystery unfolds March 21: Charlotte and Chris Nikoi and their daughter Kochoe want to visit Robben Island but can only get one ferry ticket. They decide to hike up Table Mountain instead. 11.30am: They take a taxi from the V&amp;A Waterfront, where they leave their rental car, to the base of the Platteklip Gorge hiking route. About 12.15pm: They start hiking: Charlotte soon tells them to go ahead and she will follow. About 1pm: Charlotte decides to go down and wait for Chris and Kochoe at the bottom. Chris sends her an SMS encouraging her to come up instead and catch the cable car down. 30 minutes later: Chris's phone pings and he and his daughter check the message, which is incomplete. They try in vain to call Charlotte. Later that day: Kochoe leaves for Johannesburg. Chris follows later. He lands in Johannesburg and, after repeated attempts, still cannot find Charlotte. He reports her missing. That night: Rangers on patrol search the mountain for her. March 22: Chris flies back to Cape Town and an SA Red Cross Air Mercy Service helicopter searches for Charlotte. Chris speaks to the police and searches hospitals. March 25: Chris flies to Johannesburg to fetch his daughter. Wilderness Search and Rescue begins searching. The Pink Ladies, an NGO dedicated to tracing missing children and adults, raises awareness of Charlotte's disappearance online and launches a drone to look for her. March 27: Chris and Kochoe fly to Cape Town. Chris bases himself in the city to search for his wife. April 2: Chris takes Kochoe to New York then returns to Cape Town. April 21: Chris visits his daughter in New York, returning to Cape Town last weekend.