Q. My husband and I are travelling to Amsterdam and London next month, in connection with a book we are writing.The problem we have just discovered is that because he is now 86, he does not qualify for health insurance, which is a pre-requisite for visas. He is on the Discovery Hospital plan but they say they won't insure anyone over 84. Absa, our bank, will insure me but not him.Zurich Insurance says they can cover him for everything except if he has a pre-existing cardio-vascular problem. As he has a permanent pace-maker, this rules him out. Any ideas? - Beverley Roos-Muller Travel tips: Can I get a multiple-entry Schengen visa that's valid for some years? A. The first thing older travellers have to do is check what health insurance will be needed, as you can't even apply for a visa before you have that in place.The main suppliers of travel insurance have similar exclusions. For those over 69, they exclude vascular, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular conditions.Discovery clients are covered for between R5-million and R10-million, depending on the type of policy they have. This cover is for up to 90 days for a single journey and normally they only insure people for travel up to the age of 84.Diners Club cardholders are automatically covered for R2,000,000 (with an excess of R2,000) on international travel, but only up to and including the age of 74.They offer optional extra travel insurance for additional medical expenses, a further option for pre-existing medical conditions and a further option for seniors over 75. For more information call the Diners Club travel call centre on 086-034-7337.(Note: in this particular case, Discovery has given the reader's husband 90-day coverage as he is a long-standing member, but this is not a universal rule.)Q. My wife and I are doing a Rhine river trip starting in Switzerland, going through Germany and disembarking in Amsterdam. Which Schengen visa do I apply for (Switzerland, Germany or Holland)? - Rob WadeA. A Schengen visa would cover all those countries. Check with your cruise company or travel agent, but normally you apply to the country in which you will be spending the most time. If you're visiting more than one country for equivalent lengths of time, you apply at the embassy of the Schengen country you will be entering first. You will also need to specify which countries you are visiting when you apply. Travel Tips: How much to budget for a cruise Q. For a two-week visit to the UK, must my 14-year-old son have TB tests done? - Danny ArjunA. Travellers applying for a UK visa from certain countries, including South Africa, and who want to stay for more than six months are required to produce a certificate stating that they have been screened for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that they don't have it. As you plan to stay for two weeks this does not apply.A recent reply gave the information that passengers in transit through Luanda, Angola, need a yellow-fever vaccination certificate. TAAGAngola Airlines has recently corrected a post on its website indicating this.Passengers from SA do not require a yellow-fever vaccination certificate if they are transiting in Luanda for less than 12 hours. Passengers will, however, require the certificate if they are travelling to or from an infected area, or if they are staying in Luanda for more than 12 hours.South Africans flying to countries where there is yellow fever, such as Brazil, need a certificate. Those going to non-infected countries do not - unless they are in transit in Luanda for more than 12 hours, then they do. Do you have a query for our travel expert? Send your question through to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za