By Oak Publishing, Phaidon, R1,240 This beautifully presented tome explores the simplicity, functionality and far-reaching influences of Nordic design. The book itself is simply perfect, from the cloth binding to the red stitch detailing on the cover and the exquisite imagery within. It features over 200 Nordic-designed objects, from hand-carved children's toys to mid-century furniture classics, and through these items takes you on a journey through the design, culture, history and lifestyle of the Nordic regions. Beautifully illustrated, with one image per page and featuring contributions from the most important Nordic designers, the book is as informative as it is easy on the eye. By Alice Hawkins, Thames &amp; Hudson, R640 "I love people that make an effort; the old woman in the supermarket with the frilly leopard-print outfit on, that's who I want to look at and follow around." So says British photographer Alice Hawkins, a rising star of the fashion world who, in this gloriously eccentric book, takes us on a world trip through her lens, capturing unique personalities on their home turf. Hawkins has shot for some of the world's leading fashion magazines, and rather than models, she prefers to shoot friends, people she sees on the street or locals whose style catches her eye. This is a collection of her highly original work. 4 handy books for craft enthusiastsBy Bowie Style, Laurence King, R590Based on the popular Print &amp; Pattern blog, Print &amp; Pattern: Nature celebrates beautiful surface designs, patterns and motifs and takes its inspiration from the natural world. The book is packed with everything from stationery to ceramics, wallpapers and rugs, all featuring beautifully illustrated leaves, insects, grasses, butterflies or trees. The volume documents works by the best designers in the field, and features South Africa's very own Skinny laMinx. A great reference for designers and makers, this book is also visual fodder for the nature and design lovers among us. By Cond Nast Traveller Britain, Assouline, R1,650 A limited-edition title and Cond Nast Traveller's first book, this is the ultimate addition to your coffee table. It features 36 of the world's best hotels selected and written about by A-list celebrities including writers, musicians, actors, models and directors. Add imagery shot by the magazine's top photographers and the result is a thing of beauty. Read about Sofia Coppola's luxurious retreat in Italy; the beaches of Kate Winslet's Scottish hideaway, or Kate Moss's favourite spot in the Maldives, and get personal accounts from the likes of Paul Smith, Roger Moore, Cara Delevingne and Eva Longoria.