This serenity likely stems from Avondale's biodynamic farming practices, which lend a spiritual element to daily life. "At Avondale we plant, pick and grow things by the phases of the moon and the rhythm of the seasons. We are in touch with the energy and soul of the farm," says Bulpitt.While biodynamics is by no means a new way of farming - "in fact it's the way people used to farm long, long ago" - Avondale proprietor Johnathan Grieve says it's important to educate visitors to the farm on the importance of what they are doing. That's where the idea of seasonal Field to Feast lunches comes in."When we opened the restaurant last October, we thought it would be a fantastic opportunity to tell our story and show people what we do as an organic and biodynamic wine farm," says Grieve.</img>Grandma's pumpkin fritters. Image: SuppliedGrandma's pumpkin fritters. Image: SuppliedMore than just a wine farm, Avondale boasts cattle, ducks, fruit trees, pecan nuts, persimmons and a huge vegetable garden, and for Bulpitt these quarterly lunches are a great way to ring in the seasons."We take all the guests out on a tractor ride around the farm, to discuss the different phases we are going through, the different soils the wine is grown in and so on. And then we enjoy a three-course sharing lunch paired with wine."When it comes to cooking, Bulpitt is inspired by his grandmother, who instilled a love of farming and sustainability in her grandson. "The lunch menus are very farmy and homey. Kind of like what you'd get at your grandma's, but a bit more chic. After the tour of the farm we serve a canap , then lunch starts, with a bread board overflowing with sourdough and pumpkin fritters, just like my grandma used to make."That is followed by starters placed on the table and shared by guests."For the main, we focus on one protein. We like to take a good ingredient and not mess with it too much. At the last event we did a confit of Avondale duck leg, served with corn and green beans, all from the farm. And to wrap up we had a pumpkin tart."At each lunch you can expect a completely new menu based on what is happening on the farm . "It's a very loose, informal and flowing day out. After all, who doesn't enjoy a big farm feast?' The Winter Field to Feast luncheon takes place on June 11 at Avondale. For more info visit avondalewine.co.za