But not all of us get to enjoy this perk, and instead we turn to food for comfort and pile the weight on. Those who sit in the latter camp will be relieved to know that the latest fitness trend, known as the "revenge body" is open to everyone and requires only willpower.Rather than curling up on the sofa with a packet of biscuits and a marathon of rom-coms, you hit the gym and strengthen, lengthen and tone your body. When you can't face a cupcake for fear of fatIn the US, the trend has a huge following. So much so that Khlo Kardashian, who got into shape following her break-up with Lamar Odom, has a whole TV show dedicated to the "revenge body".The most recent example, though, was seen at this year's Met Gala where Bella Hadid took to the red carpet in a skin-tight, sheer lace Alexander Wang catsuit.While the model has a well-documented history of working out and is known to be a fan of running and boxing, there's no doubt that she looked extra incredible. It won't go unnoticed that her ex-boyfriend, The Weeknd, and his current girlfriend, Selena Gomez, were also in attendance.With "lack of motivation" being one of the main reasons most of us skip the gym, it's no surprise that many fitness experts advocate the revenge body."Focusing on training regularly, socialising and eating foods that work for you is definitely a better option than feeling sorry for yourself and overindulging on Krispy Kremes," says personal trainer Lee Mullins.Jo Hemmings, a behavioural, media and celebrity psychologist and dating coach, also sees the gains of channelling your heartache this way: "At the very time we are unlikely to be in control - of the situation or our emotions - it helps us stay focused and regain some of that control over our lives as well as releasing feel-good endorphins and generally improving our fitness and health."However, there is a fine line between your new-found love of fitness being good for you, and not so healthy."It can be detrimental if either our motives are wrong, such as 'If I get really fit he/she will want me back' (rather than see what they've been missing, which is fine!)," says Hemmings.Mullins offers an equally cautious warning against "skipping meals, counting calories and overexercising in the hope that you're going to get your ex back, as this will only lead to you feeling tired, miserable and unfulfilled, and will likely lead to you doing more damage than good".8 diet myths busted!Those who have taken a longer look through Hadid's Instagram might comment that in previous months she has teetered on the line of looking great and possibly too thin. But how can you maximise your break-up to your own fitness advantage and where do you draw the line?"Whatever motivates you to achieve a healthier body and mind is definitely healthy and a good thing, but the fitness regime doesn't need to be 'hardcore'," advises Mullins, who recommends yoga as a good starting point for those wanting to ease physical and mental tension."It's important to get in tune with what you need. Are you sad and exhausted? Hit the yoga mat. Anxious, insecure or lonely? Get to spin class. Need to feel strong? Get a friend and do some weights or a [high-intensity training] session," says Rhian Stephenson, a nutritionist, naturopath and MD at a London cycle gym."Exercise makes us feel strong and confident, it releases endorphins that help with mood, it's social and keeps us connected to others, it decreases anxiety and combats depression. These are the things that will pick you up and help you to truly heal - not a quest for a revenge body."