For months, there have been calls for Springbok head coach Allister Coetzee to not just look more favourably at the high-flying Lions' players in his selections, but that it would serve him well if he adopted their playing style.Springbok flank Jaco Kriel cautioned, however, that a cut-and- paste job is not viable."Our playing pattern works for us because we've been working four, five years to develop it. It took a lot of time and a lot of effort. It isn't a thing that happens overnight." Experience touted, but what if Toetie goes Curwin Bosch?He also stressed that a whole- hearted approach and complete buy-in from the players were non- negotiables."If they are considering it at a higher level, it cannot be a short- term thing. You'd really have to work at it for a long time. I know we are dealing with professionals but you have to develop a feeling for each other. You have to know what the next guy is thinking and you have to understand each other."Kriel is in a race against time to regain fitness ahead of next month's three-Test series against France."I tore my MCL against the Jaguares and I thought I'd be out for three weeks but it looks like it will take another week or two. I'm working hard on my rehab. They say the knee is looking very good, it is just a question of getting it stronger again," he said."At the end of the month I should be ready and then it is a question of getting game fit again. I need to get everything on par and I think that's the most difficult thing, to get that game readiness."He missed last year's end-of-year tour due to injury. "It's funny because that was the MCL on the other knee. It is frustrating, especially when you felt really fit."Things were starting to fall into place. If you look at how the team is playing, it's not nice not being there. There is nothing I can do about that," he said philosophically.Even if he was fit, there is no guarantee that he would be in Coetzee's squad. At the Lions, Kriel made his name with penetrative thrusts in the wider channels but he realises the Boks need all hands on deck in the congested areas."As a six, I want to play towards the ball more," he said. "This year it started happening more, I was getting more opportunity to steal ball and to work towards the ball. That improved and I'm happy with that. I was also happy with my attacking play."He believes improving his skills at the breakdown will enhance his Bok prospects."Especially if they are looking for a specialist six. In the same breath, I don't want to focus too much on it and neglect other aspects of my play. I want to remain a versatile player," he said. "I know that will improve my chances of wearing the green and gold."