We ventured out early by car from a cosy mobile home in the quaint town of Quimper, the capital of the Finist re region in the heart of Brittany, with Radio Nostalgie FM classic hits accompanying us.The weather forecast was not good.I recalled a pretty young French girl we'd met on a train the night before saying, "You are going to Brittany and Normandy? There it always rains! Be sure you dress warm!" Readers' World: A slithery twist in Agra's taleWe first saw Mont Saint-Michel, "the Wonder of the West", as we braved the cold on a bridge in the nearby town.The conditions were challenging but under no circumstances were we going to miss this opportunity to visit this magnificent abbey on an island off the beautiful French coastline.A free shuttle bus known as The Passeur and horse-drawn carriages take visitors from the parking area to the bridge that now links the mainland with the island, thereby avoiding any problems that may arise with the high tides that still protect this iconic structure from any modern-day invaders. These reportedly rise over 15m between low and high tides and are the fastest rising in Europe.Initial construction started in the early 8th century. Once used as a prison due to its unique situation, it reverted to an abbey in 1863 after representations by many influential figures of the day, including Victor Hugo, and it was declared a Unesco world heritage site in 1979.As you climb this formidable fortress up the cobbled paths of the Grand Rue, you pass shops and restaurants, including La M re Poulard, which is famous for its giant omelettes.We were tempted to try one but at 30 (R433) apiece, we frugally opted for our pre-packed French padkos.</img>The Grand Rue, the main stone walkway with shops and restaurants, in Mont Saint-Michel. Image: NEVILLE GREENThe Grand Rue, the main stone walkway with shops and restaurants, in Mont Saint-Michel. Image: NEVILLE GREENWe did manage to peek inside though to see a wall of autographs covering over a century of famous diners, including Ernest Hemingway and Yves Saint Laurent. The blustery weather continued unabated as we explored the abbey and gazed out from various ramparts that reached out over the surrounding sea and mudflats. It was busy with hundreds of visitors but this did not distract from the once-in-a-lifetime experience.More than 3 million people visit this medieval monastery every year and it was the dramatic backdrop for the start of the Tour de France cycle race last year.There are many stone steps to climb and they lead to a multitude of unbelievable Gothic rooms as well as the human hamster wheel that was used during the prison era to transport supplies on and off the island. A wine cellar is also a feature of this amazing feat of construction.Mass is held daily at noon. When we were there, it was well attended. One could only stare in awe and try to imagine how generations of monks carried granite building blocks up this steep edifice, eventually crowning it with a gilt statue of the archangel Michael high atop the abbey. Reader's World: Tequila, hot food & shiny shoes in MexicoStill in the pouring rain and icy wind, we unsuccessfully attempted to take selfies from the ramparts until another tourist, seeing our predicament, offered to take a photo of us with the magnificent view in the background.Suddenly, the sun pierced through the grey surrounds and lit up the beautiful garden in the cloister, built primarily for the monks to have a quiet place to meditate. We quickly captured as many pictures as possible just before the rain returned with a vengeance.From our vantage point, we could see hikers making their way to the island over the mud flats, under the watchful eyes of special guides, making sure they were not caught in the dangerous quicksand that can be a major threat to any reckless tourists.In the curio shops and in many of the rooms, photographs of Mont Saint-Michel show it in all its glory in glorious sunshine and blue sky with a sparkling reflection bathed on the turquoise sea. We did not see that sensational scene. There was no reflection at all with grey, menacing skies and an almost surreal sea. But this was another, meaner, somewhat magical mood of the magnificent abbey and probably was the real picture it paints on most days of the year because we really still believe that pretty girl on the train.Share your travel experiences with us in 'Readers' World' and you could win R1,000Send photos - at least 500KB - and a previously unpublished story (in print or online) of no more than 800 words. Winners receive R1,000. Only winning entrants will be contacted. E-mail travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za