We've played 'dress up' matching local celebrities like Nasty C, Babes Wodumo and Kelly Khumalo with talented South African designers whose clothes we'd love to see them wearing at this Saturday's award ceremony.The 2017 SAMAs got off to a bumpy start for Nasty C with two of his nominations being revoked on a technicality. (Read the full story.) Nonetheless, he's still up for five awards including Best Newcomer of the Year and Best Male Artist of the Year.A post shared by peaCcce (@nasty_csa) on Feb 20, 2017 at 10:25pm PSTWe'd love to see the young hip-hop artist arrive at the SAMAs in one of Black Coffee s architectural designs (pictured below). The designer s unique take on baggy silhouettes would complement Nasty C s trademark street style perfectly. Khumalo, who's up for the Best African Adult Album and Best Female Artist of the Year awards, doesn't shy away from making a fashion statement remember when she showed up to the Gauteng Sports Awards in a glam jacket sans pants? (Check it out.)A post shared by Kelly Khumalo (@kellykhumaloza) on May 13, 2017 at 11:25pm PDT For the 2017 SAMAs, we'd like to see the singer fully dressed in a look that's as daring as she is. One of Marianne Fassler s textured gowns (pictured below) would definitely fit the bill.Fassler s 2017 collection is rife with the kinds of sheer fabrics, bold colours and shimmering embellishments we re sure Khumalo would appreciate.The Wololo hitmaker has bagged three SAMA nominations this year.A post shared by Bongekile Simelane (@babes_wodumo) on Feb 2, 2017 at 3:18am PST Based on Wodumo's Instagram, we can tell she isn t afraid to take fashion risks, which is perhaps why she reminds us of Vintage Zionist s edgy aesthetic. Instead of her usual brightly-hued, body-con mini-dress, we'd love to see her in one of the brand's rocker-chic ensembles.We ve also heard that the singer likes to break it down, which makes an A-lined skirt like the one pictured below the perfect choice as it won't restrict her dance moves. This singing sensation made it into the top 10 on Idols South Africa in 2016. A short year later and she's been nominated for a whopping four SAMAs!A post shared by Amanda Black (@amandablacksa) on Mar 21, 2017 at 2:42am PDT Picture this: she wins an award and accepts it in a stunning ensemble by the matchless David Tlale, thereby cementing her status as a South African fashion icon in the making.Tlale s dramatic, A-line silhouettes (like the one pictured below) would complement both her figure and her personality very well. Two of the popular rapper's five SAMA nominations are in the Best Collaboration category. On the fashion front, we think the best collaboration would be between Kwesta and Ephymol.A post shared by KwestaDaKAR (@kwestadakar) on Mar 21, 2017 at 9:54pm PDT Generally, Kwesta gravitates towards old school, street savvy hip-hop looks, which is why we think Ephymol s playful, abstract menswear collection would be a great fit for him. The SAMAs take place on Saturday, May 27 at Sun City.