Four high-ranking members of the Safa national executive committee have disowned and slammed the appointment of the Briton on the grounds that they were not part of the process.They point fingers at their president, Danny Jordaan, whom they accuse of sidelining them from the task of bringing Ephraim "Shakes" Mashaba's successor on board."This appointment does not have the blessings of the national executive committee. One of two things should have happened here: one is that the name of the recommended coach should have gone to the NEC for it to make a decision. Editorial: Second time lucky for Baxter, Bafana fans hope"Secondly, in the absence of the NEC meeting, an emergency committee meeting should have been convened and then the president should have reported to the emergency committee."A second NEC member said Safa flouted "our won rules"."You see, the NEC gave authority to a search committee, which included members of the technical committee, to find a coach."The president was tasked with leading that search committee. That search committee did its work and came up with three names. The names initially recommended were Herve Renard, Carlos Queiroz and Hugo Broos," he said."The executive didn't meet to discuss the names on the shortlist. Why is that? Why are we flouting our own rules? The president and the CEO [Dennis Mumble] are not the association, unless there is something we don't know."A third member of the executive, when asked whether Safa flouted its own rules, said: "I won't say no to a person who says that because the processes as we know them were not followed here. This has nothing to do with Baxter, but the people who appointed him without our input."After being given an ultimatum by SuperSport United to finalise the talks with Baxter, Safa issued a statement that said that terms on the release of the coach from the club had been agreed on. I am open to truce with Mourinho, says WengerBaxter will remain with United until the end of the season. United will release him to prepare Bafana for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier away to Nigeria on the weekend of 9-11 June.Mumble told the Sunday Times: "We are talking about the under-20 s. We are not going to talk Bafana or the new coach. We will do that ... in two weeks' time."Technical committee member Farouk Khan said "those who met the Safa requirements (Queiroz, Renard and Broos) were too expensive for us. That's when Stuart's name came up".On why they selected a man who doesn't meet the main criteria, he said: "Which other candidate could you go for? Who was available and affordable? We had to make do with what we had. Stuart isn't such a bad option because he knows South African football extensively. He did well and won trophies with Kaizer Chiefs, the biggest club in the country, and SuperSport United. He also coached England's under-19, which means that he fits well into the vision 2022 of working with the youth. But even that doesn't guarantee that he'll be a success."I know that many people say that they fear that Stuart will only select the tried and tested players. But that would be moving away from the goal because the aim is to blood young players."Jordaan is out of the country on Confederation of African Football and Fifa duties. Baxter will be officially unveiled on his return.Safa vice-president Elvis Shisana said: "I'm having lunch. I want nothing to do with this thing. I have nothing to say to you."bbk@sundaytimes.co.za