GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Has anyone ever used the term "ADHD" in your presence? Well now they'll be looking for a new label for your brand of madness. Sure, your communication skills are second to none, and you're fun to have around. But you might pause for a breath every now and then - before you open your mouth to stick someone else's foot in. Mostly though, you'll be making new friends, and laughing loudly.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Here's your instruction for the week: kindly resolve all family issues at once, before they blow up in your face. As you know, even if you weasel out of the main event, you always end up being blamed for the drama anyway. So you might as well choreograph the dance and at least get to enjoy the show. Thursday's new moon is on your side, ushering in a brand-new family dynamic.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)That job you were so pleased about is starting to look a bit frayed at the edges. But don't sign the resignation letter just yet. If you look more closely, you'll see it's you who's feeling shabby. So rather than blame the job, spend a weekend lying under a tree, thinking about your life. Alternatively, catch a train somewhere. The planets want you on the move. Most of all, take note of your dreams.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)So you're tired. So what? Are you going to beat yourself up for being feeble - or will you allow yourself a break? When the body needs time off, it takes it whether you like it or not. So avoid illness and give yourself a holiday. Your finances are on the up, so you can spare a few shekels. If you truly think the world will collapse without you, you'd better take another look at your ego.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Your luck is back in spades - although you won't see real evidence until mid-June. This is the moment to behave as though everything you've ever wanted has already happened. Dress as though you're wealthy; speak as though you're in love; and be careful not to bore anyone with your insane fantasies until they've actually happened. The new moon sends further instructions.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)There you are, trying really hard to stick to the straight and narrow, and little detours keep popping up to lure you away. You have two choices. You can fight like mad to hold your spot, or you can try something new. There are love and career options - a little basic trust is all that's required. Remember, you're the one with the gift of ancient wisdom and knowledge.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)Believe it or not, the key to success lies in caution (seriously?), discipline (yawn) and a willingness to ask for help. Not as horrendous as it sounds. Your energies are less than fabulous now but can be lifted by the company you keep. Afterwards, send flowers to the people who've helped you. Make changes in your daily routine. Repaint the walls, eat with the other hand - shift the stuckness.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)Those artistic leanings and fervent desires to share your passions are pushing you to take exciting risks. Despite the conservatism of those around you, your very enthusiasm could pull them all out of their ruts. Don't let anyone intimidate you into chickening out. And don't fret about your love life. For now, let the planets decide. Thursday's new moon will bring some news.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Everyone knows that playing host makes you nervous, but that doesn't mean you're about to be let off the hook. And this is your week. No need to panic. Parties are supposed to be fun. And besides, you need to spend time with all those friends who have helped you out. If you really can't cope, call in the caterers. Whoever needs to be there, will come. The rest, won't.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Thursday's wicked new moon brings a revolutionary feel to your week. You're looking after No1 now, and no one is going to get in your way. At last you've understood: you can no more make someone like you than you can force them to be happy. So it's back to you. What do you want for your year? Make a list. If you're determined to save the world, add that to your list. At the bottom.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Backtracking is what you're doing. Wading through sludge. So why bother? If you use this week to finish old business and clear out your desk you'll have a sparkling new energy to take you into June. Thursday's new moon will provide the tools. You'll feel the fire re-ignite in your veins. Meanwhile, use current soggy feelings to think about real yearnings. Yours. Not theirs.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)There's movement ahead. By Thursday, the urge to make big changes becomes irresistible. Good time to plan a trip, or sign up for a course. The thirst for new experiences is driving you to dump the baggage and run. Don't be too hasty. Make sure to tie up all loose ends first or they'll be waiting when you come hurtling back to your old safety net. This is a great week. Let yourself be great.