From Negronis to G&amp;Ts, here are four of the Cape's top spots to enjoy a gin tipple:Hidden away in a cosy courtyard behind Honest Chocolate, The Gin Bar keeps its menu small and offers an array of classic and creative cocktails shaken and stirred using both local and imported gins. While gin is the star attraction, there s also a compact selection of interesting single malts and bourbons on offer. The Upstairs Bar is open in the evenings (Thursday to Saturday), which is useful when the (tiny) courtyard is full. Guided gin tastings are available for small groups.Distilling the essence of South Africa's gin revolutionPaying homage to the drink s infamous reputation in Georgian London, Mother s Ruin is an altogether more upmarket space than the name suggests. One of the city s first bars devoted to gin, today you ll find dozens of gins behind the bar, including rare and small-batch bottlings. There s a good selection of tonics too, and the cocktails both classic and creative are reliably good. It s a fine place to get acquainted with a Negroni. For more info, e-mail mothersruincapetown@gmail.comIf you re in need of a G and T, but can t be bothered to drive to the CBD, The Local at Peddlars and Co, along-standing Constantia haunt, stocks more than 40 gins, alongside a range of tonics. With a sun-splashed garden a few steps away, it s ideally suited to an uncomplicated G and T on a sunny afternoon. Feeling peckish? Book a table at the adjoining Graciales for light bites from chef Brad Ball.First came craft gin. Now there's craft tonicWith more than 280 gins from across the world on offer, you ll struggle to find a better-stocked bar than the Sansibar Gin Lounge at Asara Wine Estate outside Stellenbosch. Throw in a dozen different tonic waters, and a barman who knows how to shake a cocktail, and you re in for a gin-infused treat. Want something unusual? Try the Vor gin all the way from Iceland. This was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood: Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.