That was the view of three retired Springbok flyhalves who ran the rule over the candidates likely to feature in the Bok No10 jersey against France next month.Not since Morn Steyn took near ownership of the jersey between 2009 and 2011 has a Bok pivot established himself, but Butch James believes coach Allister (Toetie) Coetzee should "settle on a 10. It's a pretty crucial position. He should stick to a 10 even if he has a few poor games," said James.With Handre Pollard again out of the equation for the June internationals James believes Elton Jantjies and Pat Lambie are the most viable options. "At the Stormers, Du Plessis [Jean-Luc] and Du Preez [Robert] played well before they got injured otherwise they would have been in the reckoning." Nerves on edge as Boks head for 'group of death'Not that James, who made his debut in the 32-23 defeat to France in 2001, is inclined to throw a rookie flyhalf at the French."You want a solid start in the series," James said sagely. "Elton has been consistent. He can play both games."He looks like the 10 with the most confidence, except perhaps for Lionel Cronj . The Lions have done well and you want the player to bring that confidence into tests."It will be unfair on Pat if they shoved him straight back in. Coming back from injury, it is best to ease back into it."Former Bok captain Naas Botha also favours experience against France. "It's between Jantjies and Lambie, but Lambie must prove that he is over his injuries. Jantjies had a good year last year but probably didn't play his best rugby under Allister."I think the guys also played as if there was no undisputed first choice. It is a chance for players to grasp this opportunity much in the way Beauden Barrett did at the All Blacks. If Jantjies does the same now there really will be no argument," said Botha.Coetzee though, has other options. He could take a step back in time and rope in Steyn, who has been mostly used off the bench at Stade Francais behind Tricolores hopeful Jules Plisson. Steyn would have intimate knowledge of the French squad but Coetzee is unlikely to invest in a player in the twilight of his career, and who offers him nothing more than a reliable boot.Another option requires the coach to be bold, a condition to which he isn't predisposed. "One guy you cannot write off, even if it is for the bench, is Curwin Bosch," reminded James. "He's young, can play 10 and 15 and will make a great impact player.</img> Sharks flyhalf Pat Lambie is still short of game time. Image: Steve Haag/Gallo ImagesSharks flyhalf Pat Lambie is still short of game time. Image: Steve Haag/Gallo Images"I believe his best position is flyhalf. He's an exciting player. A player like that needs to get his hands on the ball."Andre Pretorius, another ex-Bok pivot, isn't sure to which position Bosch is better suited. "The games I've watched where he's played 15 he was very good. At 10 he has kicked a lot, but that is part of the Sharks' game plan. He does look a complete player. He can do everything. He's got that composure that goes with the position."There may have been questions about Bosch's size and how he holds up in the tackle but Pretorius, himself a player who used to be reminded about his size, sees no issue. "I think he's done well, but the Sharks have also shielded him. Their 10 defends at the front of the lineout."Size, Botha believes isn't everything. "I'm mad about him," he said of Bosch. "I praised him the other day and was told maybe he should gain another 10kg. Why? Do you want to slow him down? "Barrett is not the biggest player in the world but he certainly is one of the better rugby players in the world."