Co-owned by Matt Beckett of The Artisan in Greenside, The Immigrant celebrates Braamfontein s unique cultural mix and the spirit of Jozi as a true immigrant city.The business is also closely linked with Once, the adjoining poshtel that sits somewhere between a posh hostel and an upmarket hotel. As a result, international travellers passing through Jozi make up a good portion of the clientele here. Trendy spot boasting a dedicated beer garden joins Braam's foodie lineupThat said, it has also quickly become a firm favourite among city workers from surrounding areas for lunch and as a vibrant student hangout in the evenings. (Also in Grove Square are the hip 86 Public pizzeria, Velo cafe and gallery, and Galata, the authentic Turkish bakery that s as good as it is affordable.)The Immigrant is all about sharing, a concept that s reflected in its layout of casual seating that encourages interaction rather than formal restaurant dining. A large circular bar is the focal point of the space and sits halfway between the inside area and outside tables. The menu is simple but well thought out.For breakfast go healthy with muesli, yoghurt and fruit, or build your own bagel. For lunch and dinner, there are wraps, salads and nachos, along with a selection of boards perfect for sharing. Choose from premium thick-cut rump, slow-roasted barbecue pulled chicken or mixed veg falafels served on a long wooden board with sweet potato, aubergine or standard fries and roast pepper pesto, chimmichurri or chakalaka dips.Drinks are artisan-focused, so you ll find a host of deliciously original cocktails and local craft beer favourites including Aces, Mad Giant and CBC order a bucket of six beers as the perfect sharing option if you re in a group. Local DJs and live music most evenings and on weekend afternoons complete the buzz and make for a really festive feel once the sun goes down.Of all the Joburg suburbs, Braamfontein is one of the few that s a real cultural mix, accommodating patrons of different cultures, nationalities, tastes and ages. The Immigrant embodies this perfectly, making it the perfect spot to chill by day or unwind in the evenings while soaking up one of the city s most unique neighbourhoods. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.