That specific event was their 34-26 win against the Chiefs, which seemingly notified the New Zealand teams of the threat posed by coach Robbie Fleck's vibrant side.The significance of that victory was in the reversal of xlast season's unceremonious 60-21 quarterfinal manhandling against the same team.Whatever natural high extracted from that euphoric win has evaporated through their four consecutive defeats. Nerves on edge as Boks head for 'group of death'The 29-16 loss to the Lions was palatable on the basis of coach Johan Ackermann's side's superior defensive game. The even 155-point spread conceded in their hammerings against the Crusaders (57-24), Highlanders (57-14) and Hurricanes (41-22) put their defensive failings and tactical naivety into perspective.Former Stormers defensive bedrock De Wet Barry said the team let themselves down on defence, but they could still bounce back at home."To cop two 50-pointers, especially with the manner in which the guys have been playing, is disappointing," Barry said."They have been playing some attacking rugby and it's unfortunate that they've been losing heavily. It's not the end of the road for them and I'm pretty sure these things will be rectified when they're at home."It's important they get the balance right in terms of attack and defence. There's no doubt they need to put more emphasis on their defence. Also, lessons learnt from last year can be different because teams have changed and so have personnel. Whether you take on those lessons is up to the players," he said, adding that: "There's still a few games left for the Stormers so I do think they can make the play-offs."While defence is a team responsibility, a backline lacking the grunt and the defensive organisation of Damian de Allende and Juan de Jongh was always going to struggle against fleet-footed and street-smart New Zealanders.Dan du Plessis and EW Viljoen are undoubtedly talents for the future but experience is not purchased at a corner store. It was their first outing against the New Zealand backs and their inability to cope with the pace of their respective opponents was apparent.Du Plessis and Viljoen may look back on these experiences fondly in the future, but Barry said these were necessary teething pains.Barry explained: "That experience is invaluable and the fact him [De Allende] and Juan de Jongh have played test rugby counts for more. Both of them are recovering from injuries and the Stormers needed to work with what they have. That lack of experience also helps the youngsters grow alongside the experienced players."The same also applies with the flyhalves but if you're old enough, you're good enough. It's a case of taking in the lessons learnt from the matches."