GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)Think delicious ideas and magical plans. This is your big moment. A chance to explore the senses and discover what each one has to offer. While you're waiting for the planets to kick in and mobilise the next cycle, spare a thought for the love life. Find out what's needed from you to make it work. Somehow you've forgotten that you're the only one who can make yourself happy.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)Who died and put you in charge of everyone's happiness? And how willingly did you accept the post? Seriously, if you want to run something, how about a project with a little more chance of success? Stop trying to please everyone and ask yourself what you're trying to avoid. Martyrdom is just another word for avoidance of your own issues. So be strong. Allow yourself to be happy.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)For some reason, loyalty to home, family and country seem immensely important. Don't question it; even if the idea seems more boring than watching grass grow. Just go with it. Call the relatives, invite the folks over, show you care. This is one time when your energy is enough. No need for elaborately wrapped gifts. They just want you. And, astonishingly, you just want them.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)There's a saying doing the rounds: "I want it all, and I want it delivered by cute, charming, naked men (or women, obviously)." Nothing new for you. In fact, you've probably already got that T-shirt. And you can wear it while you're working like a dog. The goodies truly are on their way, although possibly by a more circuitous route than you had in mind. Even so, keep checking your mail.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)Career dramas will likely reach crisis point by Friday, but only if you leave them to sort themselves out. Since you don't want to do that, grab the reins and redefine your course. If you can maintain the status quo until next month, you should be able to move on, with interesting new options. And love? Why not just go ahead and say "yes". Accept what you have and watch your life change.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)For a change, let your life take you where it will. It's useful to know that you can't control everything. Besides, you'll be pleased with the results. The planets have planned a sparkling social life for you, one in which you almost manage to forget you have an ego, so keen are you to help. Try to avoid being swept away by the moment. No grand declarations you'll later regret. If possible, stay sane.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)A delicious new love energy is gaining momentum. If you're already involved, you'll see wonderful changes with just the smallest of efforts. At work, your extraordinary ideas are finally being noticed. Even so, hold back on the overconfidence. Not everyone is as revolutionary as you are. Spare time is for fun and high-energy entertainment. For being a child again.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)This is a fantastic week for you, in which all the energies are hovering on the brink of total transformation. All that's needed is a decisive wave of your hand. Think now. What kind of month would you like? Make use of the universal magic to make your move. At work, they're all watching, in tune with your vibes. At home, you only have to say the word. Be generous with your gifts.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)Try calming down for 30 seconds. Astonishing as it seems, your high energy verbosity can be overwhelming. Yes, it's because you're interested in a thousand different things. But try to remember that not everyone is on your wavelength, so the odd introductory course might be in order. A slow one. You might even try listening to what they're telling you. Even you might learn something.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)Watch what goes into your mouth for a while. Your hips are temporarily crying out for cream doughnuts as an alternative to reality checks. Use the energy to solve inner conflicts instead of wallowing in potential nuttiness. Friends and lovers are cheering you on. So although you prefer to handle difficulties on your own, try accepting offers of help. Let others take charge occasionally.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)Daily stresses have made you forget the value of real love. Or real joy, Besides, the money's rolling in again, so there'll be plenty left over for travelling. Get some sleep. Burnout is a real issue for you. You don't want to end up flat on your back. The planets want you to rush past your comfort zones so that you can examine your world from a new perspective. You'll be amazed at what's possible.TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)It's been too long since you burst into song at the top of a mountain. Come now. Don't be shy. Communing with nature invigorates your soul, as you know. Besides, there's a leaning towards the spiritual, something which usually terrifies you straight back to the office. Go ahead: find a guru, talk to an angel, or simply hug a tree. Yes, there is more to life than this. Open a window and you'll see.