Motlanthe has said publicly that he is not interested in replacing Zuma, but ANC activist Thabo Molamu told the Sunday Times he had met Motlanthe last week and informed him that some ANC members wanted him to contest for the top job.Motlanthe initially dismissed the idea, saying: "It is not a good idea to recycle leaders." T he former deputy president of the ANC had ended up "committing to only respond through a nomination form", Molamu said."We are confident that when the time comes, he will take the ANC into consideration. He will not disappoint the masses," he said.However, during a recent interview with the Sunday Times, Motlanthe ruled out running for ANC president in December. Ramaphosa backers want him to quit cabinet"It is a bad idea. As they say, when you are ash or slag, you mustn't go back because by going back you may choke the fire that you lit when you were there."This week his spokesman, Dan Motaung, said Motlanthe had not changed his mind. "The former president is not available. He is not campaigning. He is not setting his sights on any leadership position of the ANC."Molamu and his group want Motlanthe to join former AU Commission chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, whose names are already in the hat as frontrunners to succeed Zuma.Dlamini-Zuma and Ramaphosa have been criss crossing the country to sell their campaigns to ANC members. Molamu said he proposed that Motlanthe become full-time ANC president and Ramaphosa retain his position in the party but become head of state after the 2019 elections."We should agree that the question of possible tension emanating from the creation of two centres of power requires only mature leaders to manage it. But also this arrangement may assist greatly in dealing with this thing of government leaders accounting [only] to themselves in the party."Molamu said the plan was to have axed finance minister Pravin Gordhan become Ramaphosa's deputy in government.The group's wish list includes ANC economic policy guru and national executive committee member Joel Netshitenhze as secretary-general, Dlamini-Zuma as Netshitenhze's deputy, Tito Mboweni as treasurer-general and Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu as national chairwoman. Molamu would not say how far advanced his campaign was or who else was involved.But the Sunday Times understands that a team has been set up to work on the campaign and has held discussions with provincial and regional leaders.