1) See some amazing temples and palacesThe so-called Cultural Triangle in the centre of the island covers five Unesco Cultural World Heritage Sites: Anuradhapura in the north is the first capital founded around 500BC. Wander through the ruins of this ancient city of palaces, monastic buildings and stupas. Polonnaruwa was the capital in the 11th century. Spend the day here walking this expansive archaeological site with its gigantic stone Buddha statues, intricately carved stone temples, palaces and huge dagobas. Sigiriya - or the Lion Rock fortress - is one of Sri Lanka's iconic sites. Climb to the top to see the ruins of the palace and get views across the lush forests and paddy fields. On the way up, look out for the 1600-year-old frescoes of the enchanting celestial nymphs. Sri Lanka will win you over in an instant Dambulla is a large cave temple complex with centuries-old Buddhist paintings. Kandy is a must-visit. This royal city is nestled in hills which resound with the chanting of the monks from the many Buddhist monasteries. It is home to the Temple of the Tooth, which houses Sri Lanka's most important Buddhist relic - a tooth of the Buddha.2) Celebrate the Festival of the ToothEach July and August, the Festival of the Tooth (Esala Perahera) takes place in Kandy. The Buddha tooth relic is carried on the back of an elephant in a centuries-old, vibrant 10-day procession of hundreds of elephants, traditional dancers, jugglers, fire-eaters and acrobats. Be sure to see this if you can. Check the dates at daladamaligawa.org.3) Chill on the beachThere are innumerable beautiful, palm-fringed beaches - take your pick from Hikkaduwa, Unawatuna, Tangalle, Arugam Bay and Trincomalee.4) Explore Galle FortGalle Fort, also a world heritage site, was built by the Dutch East India Company in the 1600s and is reminiscent of the fort in Cape Town, but on a slightly larger scale. There are several old churches in the fort and many of the old buildings now house stylish restaurants and shops selling traditional Sri Lankan art and crafts.5) Visit the home of Ceylon teaNuwara Eliya is a city in the hill country of the Central Province at the heart of Sri Lanka's tea-growing estates. It's also where the famous Ceylon tea comes from. Heading up into these cool, rolling, green highlands also provides some respite from the tropical heat that bathes the island.6) Take a scenic train rideThe train ride from Nuwara Eliya to the small town of Ella is considered one of the most beautiful in the world, winding down the mountain through clouds, forests and tunnels.7) Take a hike Ratnapura in the southern foothills of the central highlands is the source of Sri Lanka's sought-after gemstones. Go here if you want to lay your hands on a few sapphires and rubies. There are several waterfalls to hike to. Sinharaja Forest Reserve is a world heritage site and biosphere reserve. Hike through virgin rainforest to waterfalls and be dazzled by the hundreds of beautiful endemic birds and butterflies. Take a local guide to show you how to ward off the leeches.