From May 12-14, it will take over the Sandton Convention Centre, bringing with it collaborations and projects that promise to highlight the industry's creative talent. "We want to change the way the design industry and the public see shows," says Andrea Kleinloog, co-owner of Anatomy Design and HK Studio. Together with co-creative director of the show, Megan Hesse, their vision is to bring "a new perspective that captures what both exhibitors and visitors are hungry for".Five elements the Home team is looking forward to:After a few years' hiatus, the popular Rooms on View will be making a reappearance as a show-within-a-show.A much-missed darling of the Joburg design scene, Rooms on View was always popular for its unique format in which it allowed no typical exhibition-style stands through its doors. Instead, brands were briefed to showcase their wares in a stylised room setting. This year we can look forward to brands such as Le Grange, David Krynauw, Weylandts Spaces, Griffiths &amp; Griffiths, Hertex and more.In an extension of the Rooms on View concept, close to 20 interior designers, design studios and architects have been selected by Kleinloog and Hesse to each curate an inspired space for the show. They will work with a selection of brands to create a unique design setting. With themes such as "Dinner Party", "Beach Cabin" and "The Heritage Apartment", they will present the latest trends in an original way.IN PICTURES: Upmarket development brings the 'Maboneng effect' to New DoornfonteinHesse and Kleinloog have taken on the design of the show's central feature - a visually impactful space where visitors can take a breather. The duo's interpretation of a modern conservatory, the space will be an explosion of flowers and colours, produced in collaboration with Joburg floral artist Jonette van Greunen of Botanicus, Philip Pikus and AA Flooring.Local design will be celebrated in this section, which will see names such as Haldane Martin, Skinny laMinx, Imiso Ceramics, Douglas &amp; Douglas, and many more showing off their latest products. Multi-disciplinary artist Elonah O'Neil will guide visitors through this feature with her paper installations, made familiar through Tasha's restaurants.No fair is complete without a good food and wine offering. This section promises both, in a beautifully landscaped park-like setting. The kicker? Organisers are promising it'll be queue-free, hence the double-play in the name. For more info, visit designjoburg.com