Nicky van der Walt and Lee-Ann Liebenberg are redeveloping an iconic Cape Town building, the Ritz Hotel in Sea Point, which they hope to rejuvenate with an "unprecedented level of seductive luxury". The project was launched last year amid much fanfare.This week Van der Walt confirmed rumours that the project is being delayed, allegedly due to substandard work on the R120-million building makeover. The first guests were originally expected by last December."There are contractors that have delivered substandard work which needs to be addressed and led to further delays," Van der Walt told the Sunday Times. Hotels rest easier with more heads on pillows1"Delays in a project of this nature are not surprising and work is in progress," he said.Van der Walt rose to fame as a polo player and a member of the "mink and manure" social set. He is now CEO of the luxury hospitality group Shimmy Luxury Collection and owner of the popular Shimmy Beach Club.He said delays in the Ritz project were due to SLC's high standards."SLC will not rush the opening of the hotel at the expense of quality to ensure we deliver a world-class product."Liebenberg was announced as the hotel's head florist.At the time, she said she had put her modelling career on hold to concentrate on the "baby" - the hotel.Celebrated South African chef Bertus Basson is set to run the hotel's flagship restaurant, while Black Coffee was signed as a resident DJ.The opening has now been postponed at least twice.Two sources this week raised concerns about the project, with one claiming that these were due to financial disputes.A resident living near the hotel said he had not seen construction or work at the hotel in weeks."The last time I saw any movement was when massive pot plants were lifted to the top storeys. That was about six months ago."Everything is very quiet right now," said the man, who did not want to be named.The site looked deserted when the Sunday Times visited it this week.Basson said he was anxious about the delays. He is set to run the revolving restaurant, Top of the Ritz.</img> Celebrated South African chef Bertus Basson is set to run the hotel's flagship restaurant, while Black Coffee was signed as a resident DJ. Image: Ruvan BoshoffCelebrated South African chef Bertus Basson is set to run the hotel's flagship restaurant, while Black Coffee was signed as a resident DJ. Image: Ruvan Boshoff"It is going a little slower than expected," Basson said."The opening date has been postponed a couple of times. I actually tried to speak to the guys to see when the next opening date is. But I haven't heard from them, so I am also anxiously waiting."Van der Walt had vowed to "bring back sexy to Cape Town hospitality" with the 220-room hotel, built in the 1970s.Regarding the delayed opening of the hotel, its Facebook page contained a complaint from a Wouter Vermaak on April 28: "I would have loved the Ritz experience, but you cancelled our accommodation because the renovations won't be done. Thanks for the panic and frenzy trying to find new accommodation. Next time don't take bookings before you can actually accommodate people."