The sun was setting and the air was filled with the sticky heat of a typical post-monsoon Agra.The coach chugged over the cobbled streets as the hotel in Agra became a micro-spot on the horizon.I was a guest of the Indian government on one of their youth programmes and we had just completed the Jaipur-Agra leg. My eyes blurred with sleep as I thought about the last few days spent in Agra.I had left my hotel at dawn, making my way to the Taj Mahal as the roadsides came to life. On my walk, eager vendors shoved their wares into my path. I was thankful to enter the looming gates of the Taj. Readers' World: Singing in SantoriniInside, I was soon lost in the historic haze of a tragic emperor, Shah Jahan, and his immortal love for his queen, Mumtaz Mahal.Later, I was enchanted by the wonders of the Red Fort. As I walked within the gem-encrusted walls of Emperor Akbar's palace, I went back in time trying to recreate the rich culture and mystery of the Moghul ruler.Jodha Bai was a Rajput princess from Amer who married King Akbar in a political alliance. Their initial disdain for each other grew to a fiery love that became a cornerstone of the Moghul Empire. I knew of this tale from my granddad, so I thought of him as I walked through history, pausing at the hall where Akbar held court.As I entered Jodha's kitchen, I recalled she was the only queen who cooked. The kitchen, with resident pigeons, housed humongous pots, so huge I contemplated climbing into one. I leaned in and the guard grunted a firm "no" in Hindi. I looked at the challenge of his raised eyebrow and decided not to tangle with that.I could feel the heartbreak of Shah Jahan as I paused in his quarters, with a view of the Taj. This was the closest he could get after his son Aurangzeb imprisoned him in the Red Fort. Shah Jahan died with a broken heart, never getting to visit the monument he created for his queen.Much later, as the bus hurtled away from Agra, we had to stop so passengers could answer nature's call. At a desolate petrol station, it chugged to a halt. We slunk out and wound our way to the dubious-looking restroom.</img>The writer's nerves give way to wonder. Image: SUPPLIEDThe writer's nerves give way to wonder. Image: SUPPLIEDTwilight was setting in and the streets were losing their bustle. My friends and I decided to wait until we reached our hotel in Delhi. Others decided to go.We made idle chit-chit as we waited. Suddenly I noticed something slithering opposite me. I rubbed my eyes. Then I saw another red pile unwind and rear its fan-like head.I nudged my friend and pointed to the slithering reptile that hissed and spat on the pavement. We were just about to turn and run when a chortling, curly-haired local held up his hand in the air, sporting a third snake, a black king cobra. My friend and I clutched our nether regions in fright. Readers' World: Quaintness & cobblestones in the English village of Rye The amused local hollered for us to come and play with his friends. At ease, he picked up the red cobra and his black mate and shoved them into a sack. He then cooed and waved the third snake at us, calling us over.With shivers down my back, I walked slowly to him. With a wide, yellow grin, he said, "Don't worry, he no bite. No teeth."As the local slid the snake on me and it hissed its way up my shoulder, around my neck and down my front, I could feel every pore in my body ooze a fearful, red heat. I held my breath as he put the red cobra on my shoulder. At this point, my friends urged me to touch it. With bated breath, I caught its head and held it, in near faint.The man then fished out the third snake. My courage boosted, I stroked the king cobra's body and head.As the ladies spilt from the restroom, I waved at them and watched in amusement as some of them scuttled fearfully into the bus. A few brave hearts, however, strolled down to the snake charmer, who danced and invited them to join the game of fear.Share your travel experiences with us in 'Readers' World' and you could win R1,000Send photos - at least 500KB - and a previously unpublished story (in print or online) of no more than 800 words. Winners receive R1,000. Only winning entrants will be contacted. E-mail travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za