How did your design career start? After uni I didn't want to work for a big studio, so I started making tote bags and small textile-based items. I had a weekend stall at Broadway Market in London. I didn't feel I was going anywhere, but slowly I got involved in some projects in London and my work started getting noticed.You have created some high-profile works, including painting buildings and collaborating with clients such as Gucci. Did you ever see your career taking off the way it has? No, I never imagined that I would get to where I am today. It took a lot of perseverance.Artist behind iconic Ndebele-style BMW pays tribute to Madiba with latest exhibitionYou have a distinct design style. How did it evolve? My style has become more refined over the years with practice, but for as long as I can remember it has always had the same vibe. I know what colour palettes I like to use, and what kind of compositions work well with each design. I have also learnt how to use many different mediums, which allows my work to translate well into different projects.As South Africans, we can't help but think Ndebele when we see your work. Is it one of your influences? I love Ndebele art and it has had a strong influence on my work. The bold colours and geometric patterns are incredible. I find the art form a true inspiration and I love Esther Mahlangu. A dream of mine would be to meet her one day.Your works have such a positive feel. Do you get feedback on how they affect spaces? Yes, this is one of the main reasons I do what I do. I love how bringing colour to a space can make people feel so happy. My goal in life is to bring as much bright colour and happy patterns as possible to urban spaces, especially in grey London.What's a typical day look like for you? I love my morning routine. Typically, I get up, do a yoga class, go for a walk in the park next to my flat, have coffee and a croissant in a local bakery, go back home, put on a good outfit and only then head to my studio. My studio is my second home. It's filled with prints from artists that I love and a lot of colourful material. I usually work all day and pop out to have coffee with potential clients or collaborators.Favourite project you've worked on? My favourite has to be The Dream Come True building I painted in east London two years ago. It's the first building I ever painted and will always have a special place in my heart.</img> 'The Dream come True' building in East London. Image: Supplied'The Dream come True' building in East London. Image: Supplied</img>"My goal in life is to bring as much bright colour and happy patterns as possible to urban spaces, especially in grey London," says Camille Walala. Image: Supplied"My goal in life is to bring as much bright colour and happy patterns as possible to urban spaces, especially in grey London," says Camille Walala. Image: SuppliedA tough question for you - what's your favourite colour? Yes, this is a tough one! My favourite colour is the blue known as Majorelle. You can see it in Marrakech in Jardin Majorelle where Yves Saint Laurent used to live. This place is magical and beautiful. The strong blue on the house goes perfectly with the surrounding tropical plants.Best thing about your job? I get to do something I love every day. Sometimes it's really tough, but I wouldn't trade it for anything in the world. Read more at camillewalala.com