Group CEO Stephen Koseff, who has held the position since 1997, described the past year as one of the most "unpredictable macroeconomic environments" he could remember. But despite the upheaval, the bank and money manager beat analyst estimates when it reported on Thursday its net income had grown 15% to 487.1-million. "It was a very mixed environment, a lot of volatility, a lot of political uncertainty, but I think notwithstanding that, we were able to produce a very decent set of results," Koseff said during a teleconference from London.Under his stewardship the group increased third-party assets under its management by 24% to 150.7-billion while loans increased 27%. The group was also helped along by the rand performing better than expected despite the uncertainty created by the removal of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan. By the end of March, the group's financial year-end, the rand had strengthened by more than 20% from R21 to the pound to R17 over the year. This helped boost total operating income by 18%, which enabled the group to break through the 2-billion revenue barrier for the first time.The combined South African businesses reported a 0.4% increase in operating profit compared to the year before in rand, while the combined UK and other businesses posted a 10.8% increase in operating profit in pounds. Koseff was adamant this was not his doing but rather the achievement of the management team he had put in place. "People always look at Bernard [Kantor, Investec managing director] and I and say, 'You guys are getting old when are you going?' but the guys that run the businesses, run their businesses. We are more portfolio managers and just try and support and encourage and probably sometimes irritate them," said Koseff. But his role as captain of the ship and occasional irritation seems to be paying off for Investec and isn't likely to end anytime soon. One Cape Town-based analyst, who declined to be named, said it was likely Koseff would remain as CEO until the current environment was less turbulent. His role, like that of other South African CEOs, was to manage the current political situation along with running their companies. For a new person to come in and do so would be quite difficult.Koseff said that the rumours of his departure from his position as CEO, to follow in the footsteps of contemporaries such as Brian Joffe and Whitey Basson, who have both retired, was just speculation."I know that I have years on the clock, but I don't feel like I need to leave. Obviously, everyone wants to know who's going to take over and that's something that we will come with in time when we're ready. "I'm still here for a while, for a reasonable period, but like any business you have to manage succession," he said. A London-based analyst, who did not want to be named, suggested Hendrik du Toit, CEO of Investec Asset Management, and David van der Walt, CEO of Investec Bank, as possible successors. He expected that the group would be looking for candidates in their 50s to take over from Koseff. anetosp@sundaytimes.co.za