BMF MD Busi Mavuso said on Friday the transformation watchdog had sent a letter to Barclays Africa boss Maria Ramos, requesting a meeting for her to explain the turn of events. Jostling between executives for a high position at Barclays Africa is understood to be the reason for the head of client at corporate and investment banking (CIB) Phakamani Hadebe's resignation. Hadebe was vying for the position of CEO of CIB at Barclays Africa, a position that was held by Stephen van Coller before he left the bank last year to join MTN. Amid allegations that Hadebe was overlooked for this senior position, the bank has also been accused of failing to transform its senior executive team. Hadebe's entire team walked out of a staff meeting on Wednesday at which his resignation was announced. Hadebe is also said to be in the running for the post of director-general at the Treasury, which is vacant after Lungisa Fuzile left on Monday after nearly two decades' service. The National Treasury said in a statement it had received more than 30 applications internal and external for the director-general post. It would not comment on Hadebe. "The successful candidate will be publicly announced through the cabinet processes as the position requires cabinet approval." Attempts to reach Hadebe on his cellphone failed . Barclays Africa confirmed that Hadebe resigned in March as head of client at CIB after three years for "personal reasons". The bank said in a statement that his resignation resulted in a restructuring of several executive roles in the retail and business banking and CIB divisions. After Hadebe's departure, Temi Ofong and Mike Harvey were appointed joint heads of CIB. Both report to David Hodnett, although Hodnett would move away from the operational management of the investment-banking business. Hodnett is deputy CEO of Barclays Africa Group responsible for the South African business. Ofong was head of the corporate transactional division, but also took over Hadebe's portfolio after he left. Another executive, Craig Bond, was moved into the newly created role of head of partnerships, joint venture and strategic alliances. He would represent Barclays Africa in senior client and stakeholder engagements. Banking insiders said that Hadebe had been recruited by former investment-bank CEO Van Coller in 2014 on the understanding that he would succeed Van Coller. But this fell through when discussions were kicked off about restructuring the investment-banking and retail-banking businesses, which had underperformed.At the same time, the company is managing a separation from Barclays plc, which plans to reduce its stake to under 50%. The integration of the investment-banking business into Absa is still under way. The investment-banking business is apparently no longer a standalone unit. Hadebe, a former CEO of the Land Bank and a former deputy director-general at the Treasury, allegedly resigned when he discovered that not only was the position he was promised no longer available but the investment banking business would be separated. Barclays spokesman Songezo Zibi referred to the company's statement when asked for comment. Hadebe's colleagues walked out of a briefing on Wednesday when they learned of his departure and accused the company of a lack of transformation. An insider said that Hadebe was skilled in crafting strategy, humble and well liked. "He's a self-effacing character. He'll give the impression that he can be less than what he can do. It's only once he does it that you realise he is good."The incident again highlighted transformation issues in the banking industry. Commentators cited Barclays Africa as a poor performer and Nedbank as the leader in transformation in the sector. BMF's Mavuso said: "I know they are lagging ... as far as the banking industry is concerned. Nedbank and Standard Bank have done more interventions insofar as having a transformed organisation. "We don't see Absa doing the same. We are not surprised by what has happened at Absa. It was to be expected."The BMF requested a meeting with Ramos after Hadebe's resignation, Mavuso said. A financial sector analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: "At Barclays Africa or Absa, it seems they are unable to get people to cut through the last layer of management if you look at the people that over the years they've lost."He cited Kennedy Bungane among the top black executives who had left in recent years. "He could have easily been the next CEO." The analyst said Peter Matlare, former Tiger Brands CEO, was last year appointed deputy CEO to oversee the rest of Africa, but would have had the "best relevance" in South Africa. "[The challenges] are the level of not being able to make the bold decisions that are required."