Almost every hotel guest enjoys something of a personal touch - some sort of nod while they're travelling that will help them feel "at home" and lend to the illusion that they aren't just a number or a paycheque to total strangers. On check-in, we appreciate hand-written notes in our rooms, addressing us by name and wishing us a pleasant stay. We like to receive a "happy birthday" glass of champagne if it happens to be our special day. In the dining room, we cheerfully interact with the wait staff as if we are long-time friends. But in the modern era of social media, Instagram feeds and endless smartphone connectivity - when much of our lives is an open book online - hotels are learning to use what they know about us, and some may be taking it too far. The Telegraph recently appealed for tales from readers and staff to illustrate how some versions of personalised hospitality might be crossing the line into creepy.They collected the following tales: A travel journalist who arrived in their room after a long journey to find their children's faces printed out and framed on the wall. The images had been taken from Instagram - presumably someone had assumed that, since the writer was travelling alone, they might be missing their little ones.After initially being touched by the gesture, the journalist later took down the pictures, unnerved at the thought of how they had been harvested. The reader who wandered into his room to find his face recreated on a cake with unnerving accuracy (and it wasn't even his birthday). Another reader was presented with his face in chocolate form. The writer who was presented with a bowl of gummy worms at a spa - along with an apology that the sweets were not gummy bears, her favourite, as she had at some point mentioned on social media. The journalist who found she had been added to a WhatsApp group that included the hotel manager and other guests - on the off-chance she wanted to share her thoughts on the property, or perhaps suggest a get-together.There have also been instances of hotel staff taking things too far with social media, presumably without the knowledge or consent of management. Like the writer who once asked the doorman for the wifi code, then went to her room to log in to Facebook, only to find she had a new friend request - from the aforementioned doorman. The Telegraph reporter also shared his "disturbing" experience, of finding about six giant pictures of himself put up around his hotel room. "In each example," he wrote, "my head had been transplanted onto someone else's body." The hotel's "social media concierge" had taken the trouble to lift pictures of the guest off the Internet and graft them onto photographs relevant to the hotel's location."There was me riding a camel, walking along the promenade, and surfing an enormous wave."Even though he thought the surfer's chiselled body was a "significant upgrade on what I actually look like on a surfboard", he was not amused.