Kim and Natalie Ellis are changing views with regards to eco-friendly fashion, one stitch at a time."Established in 2012, our label began as a dream to effect local communities through sustainable fashion," they said. "It has since evolved into an enduring commitment to an environmentally and socially conscious approach to design."H&M's highly-anticipated new Conscious Exclusive collection hits Cape TownTheir return to Cape Town from London, after working for top brands such as Burberry, fuelled their passion to create clothes and contribute to their community."When we returned, we came back with a hunger to work with and improve our local community by creating jobs and using local fabrics," they said.Fast forward to 2017 and their brand is proving that sustainable, ethical fashion and high style can work well together."We wanted to start a movement and a culture in which people understand the need for sustainable fashion but, at the same time, we wanted to make people realise that sustainable fashion can also be considered high design," they said."Fashion to us is about creating timeless, effortless pieces."But, just as importantly, it's about empowering our communities and respecting people and our environment."Blending passion for design and community upliftment is paramount for the Ellis sisters. ''Our manifesto is 'Do Something. Anything'. South Africa has an incredible cultural heritage of craftsmanship which we think forms the essence of our brand."We have a responsibility to steer clear of fast fashion and focus on artisanal products, which allows us to keep harnessing, uplifting and encouraging our communities' unique talents."</img>The Joinery's manifesto is 'Do Something. Anything'. Image: SuppliedThe Joinery's manifesto is 'Do Something. Anything'. Image: SuppliedWith fast-fashion retailers like Zara and Topshop opening at almost every corner in South Africa, one wonders where ethical fashion stands."South Africa is an inspirational place. It's real and raw and designers are making incredible pieces," said Natalie."There's a bubble-up movement from street to studio. It's unapologetic, refreshing and authentic and focused on sustainable eco-design."We are proudly on the board of Fashion Revolution, encouraging consumers to ask: 'Who made my clothes?' We're celebrating fashion as a positive influence, raising awareness of the fashion industry's most pressing issues, showing that change is possible."So, what's next for the sisters? "We'll continue our exploration of sustainable textiles on African soil. It's important for us to be forerunners in sustainable clothing design and in sustainable textile design." This article was originally published in The Times.