That message came from Mlungisi "Professor" Ngubane - the man who fast-tracked Sikhakhane's coaching career by taking him from Richards Bay to Chippa United in 2011. It was right after the Chilli Boys were promoted to the first division."I was still coaching Thanda the first time I saw him," Ngubane said. "He was coaching a team called Classic from Richards Bay and showed a lot of promise. I saw a hard-working young man who was driven to succeed. That's what made me recruit him when I joined Chippa ..."When I left Chippa, I told him that he should stay. I told him to make the most of that chance because it would either make him or break him." Pirates are braced for their returnIt did both. It made him at first, especially after helping the Chilli Boys gain promotion to the elite league. But before he could lead the side in the premier division, he was demoted after owner Chippa Mpengesi roped in Manqoba Mngqithi.That would be the start of the hiring and firing merry-go-round that Sikhakhane and Mpengesi went through. That ride ended on a dizzying note in 2015. Sikhakhane was fired after he was accused of smelling of alcohol during a friendly played in honour of Nelson Mandela.The 41-year-old vehemently denies that charge. He picked himself up and joined Thanda, who were in 12th position, fighting to avoid relegation."I think he stayed at Chippa that long because of his love for football," Julius Dube, who worked with Sikhakhane at the club, said."It's not a miracle that he is here right now. He has gone through hell and come up on top ... What makes him a great coach is that he has a way of unearthing and refining talent."That eye for talent appeared as early as 2010 during Sikhakhane's stint with amateur side Island FC from Ulundi. His young team held their own against Mamelodi Sundowns in the last-32 of the Nedbank Cup. Island FC took the lead, fought hard but eventually lost 3-1.Sikhakhane didn't experience that losing feeling that much this season with Thanda. Amabhubesi lost only one match in a commanding display that saw them end the first half of the season without a loss, something no team had done before in the National First Division.The coach managed to get the best out of players such as Ayabulela Konqobe, who was initially branded a bad boy at his previous clubs.Thanda clinched promotion to the elite league on Wednesday with a 2-1 victory over Stellenbosch FC at Umhlathuze Sports Complex."I sent him an SMS calling him 'Mr Magic' after that game," Ngubane said. "He showed his quality as a coach by promoting a second team in his career. I thanked him for giving the people of Richards Bay a team in the PSL. He will make that team big."