You cannot spot Tintswalo Atlantic from across the way at Hout Bay market or from the top of Chapman's Peak, which towers above it. It is also not visible on the long drive along Chappies, the most picturesque toll road in the world.Even those people who stop in the middle of the road to take photos of the peninsula and the bay across would never for a moment realise that a steep drop below is the prettiest barnacle built into the side of the mountain. Weekend Escape: Seaside House, near GouritsmondAn unpretentious sign near the toll gate is a clue. Turn into the driveway and you finally glimpse rooftops, which give away nothing. Abraham, the driver, takes guests down the winding road, because for first-time traversers the gradient or the view might cause a disaster. The sea changes shades, shallows and deeps a palette of blues, reaching the rocky beach covered in skin-toned pebbles. It's a good, heartwarming feeling to breathe in sea air, listen to crashing waves, smell the salt and see the views of the Sentinel curling into Hout Bay. We were served welcome drinks by ladies, dressed in eclectic Maya Prass rather than uniforms, a hint of the element of casual fun that goes with this high-end offering. A wooden deck wraps around the lounge and dining area, because the sight is like champagne, you can take it in all day at a leisurely pace. Despite several chandeliers in the lounge and dining area for glamour, it is intimate and cosy with fireplaces, a library nook in leather, knicknacks which someone took care to collect and choose over time, as you would in a home. The decorator included soft couches and millions of pillows in shades of the sea and sand, powder blues and silver. There are only 10 suites, themed, but all with a feeling of Arabian luxury in their intricately carved doors and bedsteads. Every nook of the suite is inviting, a little Persian rug, winged couches for two with blankets, lotion that is not lotion - it's a soothing balm, the raku fireplace that will make winter a dream. Even the coffee station was on a Zanzibari chest and had chocolate-covered espresso beans, the choicest coffee, tasty health bars and tea choices for Africa and India. The tropical botanical prints, low rafters with cowrie-shell chandelier and mammoth bed are all so pleasing, and you're so close to nature you could be on a boat. In bed, you can watch waves crash onto the pebbles, seemingly lapping at your toes In bed, you can watch waves crash onto the pebbles, seemingly lapping at your toes, except you're on stilts and far enough from the Atlantic that it won't turn those toes blue. Balcony loungers are placed for guests to just sit and listen and watch the kelp bob like mermaids. There are quirks in the Robben Island suite, seashells scattered in a Welcome sign, a funky neon lizard amongst the conch shells in the bathroom mosaic. The bathroom is fully glass-walled, so sun streams in and warms your naked back while you fill up the bath with rooibos-scented oil, sealed in bottles with yet another seashell. One gripe? A sticky sliding door. Canap s and cocktails are served at sunset, while chef Guy Clark stirs up a storm.In-room dining is possible but the service staff are lovely and they can tell you about the time the property burned down in 2011. Dinner is a five-course event. We had seafood bisque, lamb with mint and fennel pur e, tuna with sunflower seed and lentil pilaf plus kataifi for dessert. As for sleep, the soundtrack for lullabies and meditation must be inspired from here. Renowned as one of Cape Town's "best-kept secrets", thanks to its exclusive oceanside location, Tintswalo Atlantic is the ideal destination for a romantic getaway or to celebrate a special occasion. Each suite has its own balcony or terrace, right on the water's edge - surrounded by nature only, inviting guests to simply lean back, breathe in the fresh sea air and listen to the crashing waves below. From May 1 until August 31 2017, the Winter Warmer special is R7,000 per room for two people sharing, dinner B&amp;B (two-night stay required over weekends). It includes luxury accommodation in an ocean-facing king suite, five-course dinner with a bottle of wine and breakfast. Phone 011-300-8888 or visit their website. Naidoo was a guest of Tintswalo Atlantic