My life so far ...Before becoming a designer I worked as a teacher and loved it.When I was younger, my grandmother taught me to sew and ever since I can remember I've been interested in fashion. I had a little sketch book with many designs as a kid and I dreamt of actually making the clothes.Seeing my designs come to life is a great feeling but starting a clothing line is not for the faint-hearted. You have to believe in yourself and know exactly what you're doing.Designer colab: Of Africa, for AfricaI started making clothes because ...It's always been something I've wanted to do. I have an idea in my head of what I want and finding it in the shops sometimes feels impossible so I have to create it.I've also struggled to find quality among all the pretty clothes. I'd buy something I love only to find that the hem was skew or that it shrank, or the fabric had holes. So I've made it a focus to make quality pieces that are well made.The range is ...Jessica Anne is all about quality and small details. The range is a mixture of classic silhouettes and patterned, quality fabrics. It consists of clothes I love wearing.It's different because ...Of my personality. I don't think any person is the same as anyone else - my brand represents me. I want women to feel beautiful in my clothes and know what works for their body types.Each piece of clothing is hand-made in South Africa using quality fabrics. I also want my customers to be aware of how each piece is made and that my business is ethical and transparent.On haute couture versus comfortable clothing ...From Audrey Hepburn to Anna Wintour, it's clear that women love dressing up. Every-day wear should be comfortable but not untidy. You won't catch me at Woolworths in my slippers, ever. I think there's a place for both and I don't think one should rank higher than the other.</img> Custom-made sets, R2,000, Jessica Anne. Image: SuppliedCustom-made sets, R2,000, Jessica Anne. Image: SuppliedDream client ...Myself. I always want to wear my clothes and feel comfortable and beautiful in them. Although, if Alexa Chung bought something from my store I'd immediately pop some bubbly!If there was a soundtrack to my range, It would be ...It would be a toss up between 99 Red Balloons by Nena or City of Blinding Lights by U2. The Jessica Anne pop-up store launch party is this Saturday, May 13, at 4pm - Wolves, 4 Corlett Drive, Illovo, Joburg. Entrance is R30 for live music and G&amp;Ts while you shop. Entrance fee proceeds go to E.L.E, an organisation that educates orphans and does other good things. This article was originally published in The Times.