You know what you're in for when the restaurant's logo is a cow head.La T te [French for "the head"] is Cape Town's new "nose-to-tail" eatery and it's attracting lots of attention.Located at the less fashionable bottom end of fashionable Bree Street, La T te is all white walls and wooden tables, concrete floors and overhead industrial fans and lamps. The waiters wear white shirts and black aprons; the menu is printed matter-of-factly on white bond paper; the napkins are white and the plates are bordered with a blue stripe. Everything is discrete and impeccably designed.Celebrated Cape Town restaurant takes the fear factor out of eating brainsIt's relatively hard to get a booking for dinner - especially after CNN gave La T te a rave review last year - and so on my short trip from Joburg we had to squeeze into a first sitting at 6pm.For the first course we ordered crispy pig tails with aioli - terrifyingly, fantastically deep-fried. The tails were quite a lot larger than I expected, like generous KFC chicken legs. And yet there was nothing of the greasy and unhealthy sense that comes with fast food. To be sure, the tails were not un-oily; they were, in fact, uncommonly unctuous. The soft flesh and fat melted away leaving a coating of sticky meatiness on my fingers and lips.At this point I am aware there will be readers who will have reached their carnivorous limit. I, on the other hand, have dreamt about these tails for weeks and have returned twice since my first visit.After the tails we shared lamb brains with tarragon; sweetbreads with carrots and bacon; ox heart; lentils with goat cheese; a fresh side salad and chips. The lentils were a little ho-hum actually, the ox heart tasted a lot like beef, which it essentially is, but the lamb brains and sweetbreads were revelatory. Prepared like the pig's tails, breaded and fried, the brains looked like larney chicken nuggets served with posh mayo, however, their disconcerting fleshy texture and profoundly meaty flavour were quite unlike anything else I've eaten. The sweetbreads, pan-fried in a glassy sauce, were delicate and unimaginably light.To our good fortune, the second sitting was cancelled so we were allowed to sit for hours digesting and drinking our third bottle of Flotsam &amp; Jetsam Cinsault.When to go: Workday lunch or a special dinner.Who to take: Definitely not vegetarians.What not to do: Don't play it safe - order at least one dish that terrifies you.What to drink: Anything from the intelligent wine list.Who you'll see: Swedish travellers, fashionable Capetonians, Joburgers on foodie pilgrimages.How much do you need: R350-R600 a head.Address: La T te, 17 Bree Street, Cape Town. Call 021-418-1299. This article was originally published in The Times.