After enduring a less than satisfactory 2016/17 international season despite making a ton in his 100th test against Sri Lanka at the Wanderers in January, Hashim Amla saw the glorified Twenty20 jamboree as the perfect place to regain some much needed form.In an underperforming Kings XI Punjab side, Amla was the top scorer with 420 runs at 60. His two hundreds came in a losing cause but the end product of him finding his touch at an important time bodes well for the Proteas. De Kock shakes off the cobwebs bashing a century for Proteas against SussexThe IPL was the change of scenery Amla said he needed after a long and unnaturally unproductive international season for the normally prolific limited-overs opener."It was quite the change of scenery after a long international season. Playing in India is always exciting. The thing about T20 cricket is that you get on a roll. T20 cricket is about scoring runs because the wickets are flat. I guess the change of scenery was about getting some different cricket under the belt and it was good fun," Amla said."It was nice to get some runs at the IPL but being in England at the Champions Trophy is going to be a completely different ball game and format, alongside the fact that it's a new season."Amla has a score to settle with the ICC Champions Trophy.His 2013 outing only yielded 127 runs at 31 with a highest of 81 as South Africa limped to the semifinals. His last 10 ODIs produced 361 runs with 154 coming in one knock against Sri Lanka in Centurion.That should frighten the islanders and the other Asian teams in South Africa's group. Six of his 24 ODI hundreds have been compiled against Pakistan, India and Sri Lanka. The islanders, whom South Africa blanked 5-0 earlier this summer, will be the Proteas' first Champions Trophy assignment on June 3 at the Kennington Oval in London.Amla acknowledged he needs to deliver after a middling home season despite the team's overall success."If I look back at my own season, there were times when I got in and made 30s and 40s and at times, I could have got bigger scores to keep the runs tally going. Unfortunately, this season there were a lot of 30s and 40s alongside the odd big score and I didn't manage to kick on," Amla said."I'm in a good mental space and I'm really looking forward to the England summer. We're feeling good about the tour and we will be in England early for the Champions Trophy."