Zuma says something has gone wrong in our country. What's your response?If he's asking what has gone wrong, in some respects he is one of his own best answers to the question.He's part of the problem?Most definitely. The quality of government under his leadership has declined significantly.But the crisis of gender violence predates his presidency, doesn't it?It does, but there is a sense that one is losing some headway here. That gains that had been made are in some ways being rolled back. The quality of what one was doing is not what it used to be.So we've gone backwards?There is that sense. 'She must have been beautiful even in death ' says Karabo's fatherIs that sense supported by the stats?This is the other problem we have. The quality of our administrative data is poor.Why?This is a broader problem across government. There is an overemphasis on numbers at the expense of quality, and without asking what the numbers mean.How important are quality stats in the fight against gender violence?Crucial. Because you can then decide where you need to allocate services, where you need to make more services available, how many shelters you should have. You can look at them to see if our interventions are having any kind of effect. Are we seeing a change in the nature of rape, which would mean having to try different strategies.So they should be telling you much more than just that the situation is getting better or worse?Yes, absolutely. And when you use stats purely to say we're winning or we're losing, you actually introduce perverse incentives into the system. Because nobody in government, especially if their performance bonus depends on it, wants to be seen as losing and not meeting their targets. So you then introduce perverse incentives to do things which are not very smart but which enable you to meet your target.How do we change this?We need to change the way we measure performance in government. The police, for example. Their measurement is on how much they reduce the reporting of rape and domestic violence. This ignores the fact that rape and domestic violence are significantly under-reported. So rather than measuring them by how much they can stop women from reporting, we should be measuring them on by what extent they reduce the barriers to reporting.Has reporting rape or gender abuse become any easier?No, not really. One has been making this argument to the police since 2004, but there has been no shift.Again suggesting that these problems predate Zuma?Yes, they do. But you can intensify and deepen pre-existing problems. In relation to services, things have become worse. Party policy in the last two elections - and this goes for the other parties as well - has been extremely insipid [on gender violence]. The opposition doesn't offer any better analysis or understanding or commitment So getting rid of Zuma would solve the crisis?No, the problem goes much deeper than that.Is it a ruling-party culture, then, that prevents us from tackling the crisis?That's difficult to say, because the ANC has become such a fractured body. There are people in the ANC who do take the issue seriously.Four years ago, amid outrage about the rape and murder of Anene Booysen, the ANC Women's League announced that they were going to call for a commission of inquiry into gender-based violence. Did that ever happen?No.Any idea why not?This is where you really do wonder what has got worse. Because what also happened at that time was that the Department of Social Development put together this integrated programme of action addressing violence against women. There was no consultation, it was never released and never implemented.Family of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters flooded with goodwill ahead of memorialWhat does the fact that someone like Bathabile Dlamini is in charge of both the ANCWL and Department of Social Development say about the ANC's attitude to gender violence?I'm not convinced that opposition parties have demonstrated a strong commitment to gender equality.But they're not in government, are they?My concern is that should the ANC government be replaced, we are not guaranteed that we'll get a more brilliant understanding of gender equality.Until then, are you concerned that presidential candidate Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma hasn't said a word about where she stands on the issue?What worries me about her is that in 2004 she overturned the suspension of [diplomat] Norman Mashabane, who was found guilty of 19 different charges of sexual harassment. She overturned that. That's a concern.Is it a concern that gender violence has never been an electoral issue in this country?Yes, but here you have to look at party policy. And party policy in the last two elections - and this goes for the other parties as well - has been extremely insipid. The opposition doesn't offer any better analysis or understanding or commitment.Given the scale of the crisis, why are they allowed to get away with this?Here you see a challenge to civil society around making this much more of an issue.