Last year she was named featured artist at the FNB Joburg Art Fair. She was also chosen to exhibit at Art Basel Miami.Here's what gets her creative juices flowing:1) When I look at my surroundings, I am made aware of my true source of inspiration: God; a divinity and greatness that lives not just above, but within. How beautiful is the Earth? How can one not be inspired by it? The colours, shapes and textures that take on a character of their own. Each atom, plant, animal or creature is unique to its being.The next Kentridge? 6 local artists you should invest in now 2) I have always loved music. I truly enjoy the moment when a song is able to hit my core and naturally move the rest of my body in sync with the beat. Right now, I can't get enough of Saba Pivot.3) I'm attracted to colour and I enjoy playing with complementary hues when I conceptualise a shot. Colour plays a big part in how I encompass a type of character and how I add the final touches to my works. At the moment, I am loving red, brown and black.4) I'm a sucker for sentimental experiences and I find that I appreciate these moments more with family and friends. A little down-time with the people I love most is something I always look forward to. I recently hosted a black excellence dinner for my close friends, which was truly special.5) Living in a globalised time, my identity plays a huge role in characterising not only my work but my being too. I'm inspired by the teachings and principles of the Xhosa culture that are capable of being applied in the modern-day context. I'm proud of the diversity that is held within this culture.6) A woman's capability to move, navigate and blossom in the constructs of this society is inspiring. We are strong, vigilant, wondrous beings. I am particularly in awe of my mother.7) The message that Africa relays has always been unique, innovative and resourceful. Miriam Makeba is a great example of the positive messages Africa has to share with the world.</img> Image: Noxolo Mafu Image: Noxolo Mafu Tony Gum is represented by Christopher Moller Gallery.