When we are at home with friends and family, we are often quite comfortable to be our real selves. But when we hit the workplace, we are quick to assume the role of a persona completely different from who we really are. Some people transform so much that it is hard to reconcile who they are at work with who they are outside work.It is, of course, critical to conform to whatever behavioural norms exist at our place of work, as this gives some level of order and uniformity. The challenge today is that we tend to over-conform, not because we want to be compliant but because we lack the courage required to bring our authenticity into the room.Authenticity is not easy because acting in a courageous manner is not easy. We would much rather conform than risk exposing ourselves. When I bring up this topic in the context of business, I often receive defensive comments about how being authentic can alienate others and reduce our chances of being respected and accepted by them.This is a fear-driven response - it means we are allowing our fear of judgment and rejection to drive us towards leading ourselves in ways that are completely inauthentic.The fear that results in individuals choosing to act in a manner that is not authentic should be cause for concern, especially because individuals are most effective when they are being their true selves, not when they are pretending to be people they are not.I often reflect on how we do business in the South African context, currently quite westernised due to the nature of our history.I am curious just how much more effective our leadership teams would be if we enhanced this by having South Africans from all kinds of backgrounds start to bring their true selves to the conversations and allow their authentic voices to be heard.All of a sudden, you are more likely to have ideas and inputs that are influenced by the multitude of our diverse backgrounds, values and cultural experiences.We are fortunate to have access to this richness in one country - let us use it to our advantage.Let us have the courage to share our views in that they enhance what the boss just said. We do not always have to hold ourselves back if there is an alternative way of looking at things. There is a reason the boss has you in the room. Not to agree and keep quiet, but to add value.If we do not develop the courage to speak up and share our authentic perspectives, we are effectively robbing the business of a wealth of ideas.We often focus on minority groups as the ones needing more assistance with speaking up. Frankly, I think the problem goes beyond that.I see it all the time in all kinds of diverse groups - from small-time entrepreneurs to senior managers responsible for billions of rands. We all suffer from the impostor syndrome. As soon as we feel slight pressure, we are quick to conform, instead of having the courage to act from our more real, authentic place. These impostors drive our behaviour.The reality is that no one can be influenced by an impostor - they can be far better influenced by our authentic selves. It is not a coincidence that the global leaders with the highest level of influence on society are often the ones who speak from the heart and limit the pretence. Human beings connect far better with a human being, not the scripted versions of ourselves.Think of all the speeches we have come across. The scripted ones are the hardest to connect with. The more real, authentic ones are the ones we remember.People tend to commend and admire those who lead their personal and professional lives in an authentic way, but this is not something that should be seen as reserved for the chosen ones. We all have the power to be courageous.It starts with being serious about knowing and accepting who we are, regardless of how others perceive us, and then developing the courage to speak up and share our authentic views because those are so much more valuable than the made-up scripts from the impostors who might lie within us.zipho@ziphosikhakhane.comSikhakhane is a business speaker, facilitator and adviser on leadership, entrepreneurship and Africa, with an MBA from Stanford University