The hot, dry wind shrieked like a banshee. Tumbleweeds raced through the dusty streets. Palm trees bent double, their fronds sweeping and swirling the dust through the choking air. Two gunslingers faced each other in the distance, squaring up for a duel. But no, wait; that last bit's not true . no scene from the Wild West featured an azure sea, shimmering and glinting in the distance.We weren't actually in American cowboy land but we were in the wild West: the wild west of the Cape, that is, Shelley Point to be exact. It was January and people had warned us about the wind. We hadn't listened. Accidental Tourist: A road trip can be a holiday in itselfWe were longing for the barren, unspoilt landscapes of the west coast and nothing was going to stop us. Not even gusting winds of 100km per hour.Our apartment was situated on the grounds of a golf course, grounds that should have gleamed emerald green but which had been turned pale yellow by a combination of drought, wind and sand. As we drove through the winding lanes, the sand battered our car like showers of gritty hailstones. Opening our car doors was a test of strength and endurance. I soon admitted defeat and the hubby came to my rescue. Together we battled our way up a steep driveway, heads bent and bodies braced, to a house where our smiling host awaited."Hope you aren't here to play golf," he laughed. My husband looked at me askance; his golf clubs were stashed in the boot of the car. "You do know that the hotel has closed?" inquired our host. It was my turn to look bewildered as images of sipping an ice-cold G &amp; T by the pool rapidly drained away. "No hotel?" I replied, with a tinge of heartbreak in my voice. "Nope, it went under last year," he replied. Panic and dread washed over my husband's face. "And the golf course?" he ventured. "Ja, that's still open; you should have no problem getting a game," was the response. Relief! All was well, for my husband at least.Our apartment impressed us with clean lines, comfy furniture, a rim pool and an uninterrupted view of the ocean. As I unpacked our supplies (good local wine and cheeses, plus ingredients for the all- important G &amp; T) my husband suggested we visit the golf clubhouse. "I should book a game for tomorrow," he said. So off we set, through the screaming wind and sand that exfoliated the skin clean off our faces, to the local clubhouse where we were greeted by signs stating "NO ENTRY" in firm capital letters. We wandered around the grounds until we stumbled across two men behind a makeshift bar that was empty of paying customers. My husband explained he had come to book a game of golf. Accidental Tourist: Weird folks I met in the KarooThe two men looked both baffled and amused. We were all yelling at each other in an effort to be heard above the shrieking wind and it was clear they thought we had lost our marbles entirely. "It's a bit quiet at this time of year," said one in what was clearly an understatement. Undeterred, my husband booked and paid for his game of golf and we set off to explore the once-grand hotel, now standing abandoned like a landlocked Marie Celeste. Signs of its previous incarnation were still evident in its elegant chandeliers and notices that directed us towards a non-existent spa. But there was no sign of life.Discouraged and a tad downhearted, we set off in search of some lunch. As we drove through deserted towns, past shuttered restaurants and closed shops, it was clear that fate has not been entirely kind to parts of our beloved west coast. Once sustained by fishing and now scuppered by an ailing industry and the withdrawal of fishing rights, some villages resembled nothing more than forsaken ghost towns.Tiny Paternoster still thrives with its eclectic mix of whitewashed houses, quaint shops and astonishingly excellent restaurants. As we devoured our delicious lunch of sea bass and purchased freshly baked olive bread from the local patisserie, the village was a beacon of light amongst forlorn hamlets and townships that clearly bear the blemishes of a scarred economy. The next day, my husband enjoyed a solitary game of golf, wielding his clubs like weapons against a demonic wind and storms of sand. He returned looking like he had slain a dragon and survived.We still love the west coast. It has a unique, austere beauty that seduces with its starkness. But next time we will visit in September when, hopefully, the area will be blessed by soft rain, squalls of wind will be tamed and wild flowers will be blooming. That is surely something to look forward to. Do you have a funny or quirky story about your travels to share with us? Send 600 words to travelmag@sundaytimes.co.za.