His new restaurant, Something s Cooking by J Something, opened at the beginning of April in Sun International s new Time Square development in Menlyn Maine. We chat with J to find out more.You ve opened a restaurant! How did that happen?I love cooking at home and making my own food for my friends, my family and myself. About two years after my music career really took off, I d just finished varsity and my dream of becoming a musician had just become a reality. But it was hectic, so I needed another way to be creative that would relax me. I picked food as a hobby.I posted a picture of myself on Instagram and hashtagged it #somethingscooking . Three and a half years later it became a TV show and now it s a restaurant.J'Something feels like he's walking in his dad's footstepsWho taught you to cook?Both my parents have always been passionate about food. My father worked for Sun International for 20 years, heading up the food and beverage departments of many hotels. My mom also worked in the company in PR, and owned her own Portuguese restaurant in Port Alfred for 15 years.How have you found the confidence to move from music to food as a career?I m actually not even qualified in either music or food I studied a marketing degree. But what I do have is a heck of a lot of passion in both of these areas. Also, I feel that one of my strongest assets is my mind. I m a big believer in myself and I depend on myself to feel good enough rather than getting validation from others.What can we expect on the menu?It ll change every three months, but our opening menu is based on things I love cooking myself. So there s the Lamb Feast, which is shredded slow-cooked Karoo lamb served with a hummus red onion and aubergine salad and cumin flat bread. Then, of course, there s Portuguese chicken the way I love making it, using my family recipe. And then there s the Pork Belly Ramen: a bowl of broth with noodles and a slice of pork belly topped with ginger, chilli, kale and soft-boiled egg. It s a very theatrical dish.Tell us a bit about the rest of the teamWe have an amazing head chef, Ramon Gouws, who used to work for Sun International at the Maslow and The Saxon, among other places. He s so talented and is like a big brother to me. Then Jaco Truter is our sous chef who s also worked with Ramon before. The three of us are very fired up. For now, I m having fun I m just taking it one step at a time and having fun along the way. This article was originally published in one of the Sunday Times Neighbourhood Property and Lifestyle guides. Visit Yourneighbourhood.co.za, like YourNeighbourhoodZA on Facebook and follow YourHoodZA on Twitter.