Powder-soft sand nudged by azure water panning to lush mountain scenery... and hardly a soul around.That's the Seychelles sales pitch tempting holiday-makers to the 115-island archipelago in the Indian Ocean where the weather is tropical all year long. It's all true.The beaches are the main attraction, but the cultural heritage and ecological richness makes it a destination for culture and food fundis too.In Mahe, the largest island in the archipelago, I sampled market food - the fishermen's daily catch and fresh fruit, vegetables and spices.After a 15-minute Air Seychelles flight we landed on Praslin, home to the Seychelles' World Heritage Site, Vallee de Mai, and the coco de mer palms with a fruit that resembles the female and male genitalia.Another 15-minute ride - this time by ferry - brought me to La Digue where rows of bicycles and blooming flower bushes line the jetty.The island's abundance of fish and seafood, fruit and vegetables and exotic spices from all over the world offer myriad flavours.A Seychellois delicacy, the breadfuit is an exotic, prickly looking pod which has been recognised as a superfood. Legend has it that once you've tasted it, you'll return time and again to the island. For me, though, the octopus curry is the main drawcard for a return visit.HOW TO MAKE OCTOPUS CURRYIngredients:1kg octopus3 Tbsp oil4 garlic cloves, finely grated1 small piece of ginger, finely grated3 Tbsp saffron1 tsp masala (add more for spicier dish)5 whole cinnamon leavesSalt and pepper, to taste1 litre coconut milk2 large eggplants, cut into small cubesMethod:1) Cut octopus into pieces (not too big) and boil until tender.2) In a pan, heat the oil. Add the garlic, ginger, saffron, masala, cinnamon leaves, salt and pepper. Add pieces of octopus, briefly allow to fry. 3) Slowly pour in coconut milk (this must cover all the ingredients in the pan). Cook over low heat for 15 minutes, taking care to turn from time to time in the saucepan so the octopus doesn't stick. 4) Add eggplant. Turn gently with a wooden spoon. Allow to simmer for five minutes; the coconut milk should have reduced to a little less than half. 5) Serve with rice. Recipe courtesy of Eden Bleu Hotel, Mahe Yasantha Naidoo was a guest of Air Seychelles and Seychelles Tourism Board. Air Seychelles flies twice a week out of Durban. This article was originally published in The Times.