Irene and Iwan Roux, one of the first couples to buy in the estate almost two years ago, say their dream home has become a nightmare due to leaking windows and other construction problems."If I knew then what I know now, I would never have bought the house," said Irene.Half of the 800ha estate, where homes can fetch upwards of R20-million, is reserved for parkland. There is a 42km mountain bike track, Jack Nicklaus golf course, private school and office parks. It was built by billionaire insurance mogul Douw Steyn, who lives on the estate in a 3,000m mansion valued at more than R250-million.The developers have accused the Rouxs - who demand that all their window frames be replaced - of "waging a war" against them, saying they have done everything possible to address the "inevitable defects" that come with a new build.Iwan said there had been several attempts to fix the leaking windows."Every time there is a big storm we have to put out towels as we have water all over our home. There is even water that runs freely out of a nail in the wall above our TV. We have extreme damp issues because of the leaks. When it floods from the east, water runs from our top bedroom windows under the carpet through our kitchen ceiling in the house and onto our kitchen tops and floor."As a result, carpets and furniture, including a R10,000 TV unit, have been damaged.A problem with the front door resulted in the couple having nothing but plastic covering the entrance to their house during December."One kitchen window cannot lock at all and one of the main electrical cables for the house was found on the ground outside and not in the slab of the house, where it should be. The cable issue has since been resolved," said Iwan.He also said their garage was too small for their Toyota Land Cruiser, as was the driveway.The Rouxs, who run a landscaping business, said their work had suffered as a result of the dispute, as Steyn had cancelled his garden maintenance contract with them.Another disgruntled resident, who did not want to be named, said there had been problems from day one. "It's unbelievable. We've paid a premium for these houses and expect quality. It's a never-ending story and I have to keep calling them back. It's always someone else's responsibility."He said his roof leaked and there were serious damp issues.Another resident expressed concern over the way the management association spent its funds."A lot of corners are being cut and money is being spent with no checks and balances," this resident said, adding that homeowners were reluctant to speak out because of concerns over property values.Steyn City CEO Giuseppe Plumari accused the Rouxs of "waging a war against me".He said: "We are 100% committed to ensuring all our purchasers are satisfied and receive full value for their investment. The remedying of defects is an inevitable part of any property development, and we have at no time shirked our obligations."We are absolutely committed to attending with all due urgency to all issues that fall within our area of responsibility as the developer."Plumari told the Sunday Times the estate would replace the window frames if an independent expert confirmed this was the cause of the problems. But the Rouxs said this week that Plumari had never made this offer to them.Marie Yossava, whose public relations company represents Steyn City, said the Rouxs' double garage was the standard size. "Mr Roux purchased the house as is and had ample time to inspect the property."She said the development's management association was properly audited. "No funds can be applied for any other purpose than for the objectives of the association."steenkampt@sundaytimes.co.za