I'm going to reinforce a loathed stereotype by admitting I'm a Zulu person who enjoys very few vegetables and tolerates the rest out of a sense of duty to my physical wellbeing. So when the word "nyamalicious" jumped out at me while I was skimming The Joint Jazz Caf 's online menu, my brain's pleasure centres fired up. Meat is always a good idea where I'm from.The four-month-old caf has several things going for it. Unrivalled views of the sea. A colourful, affable manager. Seating and d cor which have yet to succumb to the corrosive stickiness which seems to dull all Durban seaside restaurant surfaces sooner or later. And really, really good food.New Greek restaurant brings the full Hellenic dining experience to Durbs"The idea came from ijoyinti - the concept of township [speakeasies] where people used to get drunk indoors," explained manager Sithembiso Ntuli of the caf 's concept. "When the chairs ran out, they'd sit on beer crates. When space ran out they'd spill over into the kitchen."The Joint has a hip lounge and bar area upstairs and an abstracted township-themed restaurant below. Seated at its tables when we arrive are urban Afro-hipsters and creative professional types.Tortillas seem to be the trending flatbread of choice at a lot of places whose food I enjoy lately. This displeases me. I find the South African take on the Mexican staple to be, more often than not, bland, with an off-putting dulled sheen to them reminiscent of plastic. I like to be able to tear my flatbreads and savour them separately from their contents. The soft tortillas I've had so far do not invite this - they taste like nothing much and have an off-puttingly smooth texture going down. I'd take a flaky roti in their stead any day.The golden puffs of battered linefish on a bed of chips and greens are smattered with a scattering of corn. The greens are fresh, the fish portions generous and tasty. It's all flawlessly cooked - I recommend it to pescatarians.My friend's Phuza Platter selection is a star in its own right and I can see why it's themed around alcohol. The quarter-chicken is hangover magic - spicy, juicy and covered in a sauce whose colour hints at chilli heaven. The boerewors is apparently of the Wagyu-Angus beef variety - fancy, huh? It does have that full, pleasantly fatty flavour if you eat it slowly and pay attention. The beef rump is amazing (we take it medium rare), seasoned just right, juicy, enough. Tender, tiny lamb portions lurk in the shadow of the enamel bowl of afroslaw.Deliciousness is the only constant at this fine-dining eatery in DurbanI had been feeling contrary when I suggested my friend order the side in lieu of the promising-sounding sea salt and wild oregano seasoned string fries or the famous bhatata (sweet potato) with chakalaka and corn pap. In all honesty, the afroslaw read like a hodgepodge of things I hate - raisins in savoury food, moist nuts, cabbage ... who does this? Why?I decided to try it anyway. I was wrong. Chef Brandon Newport was right. It's delicious. Everything terrible about raisins sings in this dish - the weird texture, the dehydrated sweetness. They harmonise wonderfully with the crunch of the cabbage and candied pecans.Besides the tortillas, my only other quibble is with the awkward plating of the platter meal. Yes, the lovely rustic ugqoko (carved wooden platter) with its dinky legs add to the meal's Instagrammability, but it is hell to eat off with a knife and fork. Ugqoko was never meant to be coupled with western silverware. It rocks like a cradle with the slicing and spearing of every would-be mouthful. Awkward.When to go: Thursday and Friday evenings if a vibey night out is your jam. Themed music nights are planned in the coming weeks.Who to take: Your big city friends who love a good night out. Especially Joburgers. No city of gold hotspot, no matter how trendy, can replicate these views. Watch them swoon.Good to know: The boom-gated parking behind the restaurant is for you. Also, the lounge offers a pared-down version of the restaurant's menu.How much do you need: Our spread came to R338. A reasonable amount considering the quality of the food and some of the ingredients that go into it. The wrap was R65, the platter R210.Address: 98 OR Tambo Parade. Open 6am to 6pm Monday and Tuesday; 6am to 9pm Wednesday to Sunday. The lounge operates on a different, overlapping schedule. This article was originally published in The Times.