HOW OFTEN DO YOU TRAVEL?I used to travel every two to three weeks from Cape Town to Europe but I have since moved to London as my travel schedule has increased significantly. These days, not a week goes by when I am not in a different country.YOUR EARLIEST MEMORY OF TRAVELLING ABROAD?My earliest memory would have to be Phuket when I was about 13 years old. I remember it being incredibly hot.WHAT DO YOU NEED FOR A PERFECT HOLIDAY?I'm usually so busy travelling the world racing or working in Cape Town that when I do take time out to relax I like to run - a lot. So I just need my running shoes and I'll be happy wherever I am in the world. 'Funny Girl' star Clyde Berning's travelling lifeFAVOURITE HOLIDAY DESTINATION?Lugano, Switzerland. It's beautiful there!BEST HOLIDAY EVER?Holidays? I haven't had one of those in a while! I travel a lot because of my racing duties. I've been to some awesome places though and experienced some incredible things, from winning races at legendary F1 tracks to driving incredibly rare and exclusive cars. As a result of all of that, I get to see amazing places which aren't commonly visited by tourists.FAVOURITE RESTAURANT?I once had a steak in Mugello, Italy, which blew my mind. Nothing has come close since.FAVOURITE CITY?Cape Town, specifically Hout Bay/Camps Bay/Sea Point, where I lived for years. Every time I get back from a long trip overseas it feels like I'm coming back to a holiday setting. I love it.MOST ADVENTUROUS TRAVEL EXPERIENCE?I once got lost in a little town near Rome until the early hours of the morning. My phone had run out of battery so I was without navigation. Mild case of panic took over but I eventually navigated my way out of the farmlands.I also once had to do a race in Malaysia for Lamborghini. It was unbearably hot and we were staying in a tiny hotel room with no windows. To make matters worse, I had a huge accident in one of the races, which resulted in a broken leg. I ended up hobbling around (without a crutch) for days in some of the worst heat you could imagine. I don't wish to repeat that.MOST RELAXING DESTINATION?I recently travelled to Lugano, Switzerland. It's beautiful and felt very much like an even higher-end version of Cape Town. Be warned though, it's not cheap.</img>Lugano, Switzerland, feels like an even higher-end version of Cape Town to racer David Perel. Image: iSTOCKLugano, Switzerland, feels like an even higher-end version of Cape Town to racer David Perel. Image: iSTOCKFAVOURITE HOTEL?Often I stay in affordable Airbnbs or basically the cheapest place I can find near the race track.That being said, I once spent a few days in the Shangri-La at The Shard, London. It was a massive suite which felt more like an expensive apartment with an incredible view of the city.BEST PIECE OF TRAVEL ADVICE?Pick one airline and one rental car company. Do your best to earn the miles because the benefits you get after a few flights are well worth it. Same applies to renting cars, which have a ton of hidden fees that can get minimised by your being a member. Also, never forget to choose your seat and your meal prior to checking in for your flight.Also, using the business lounges during layovers is a life saver. Decent food and a shower before the next long flight helps ease the pain of constant travel.WHAT'S YOUR ONE TRAVEL ESSENTIAL?My laptop and my GoPros. I try to capture all my trips on video (check out his YouTube channel).WHERE NEXT?Over the next four weeks I'll be in Spain, Belgium, France, Italy and Switzerland. There are a number of races I will be attending but the highlight will be the Le Mans 24 Hour race in June. It's a dream of mine to compete in it so this year I am going to watch and learn from behind the scenes to try to learn as much as I can.