Super Rugby on a Sunday is not that much of a peculiarity in Australia as it is here, but the Lions have no time to dwell on what day of the week it is.They will set about their task with the same urgency that they hope to sustain their chase of the Crusaders at the top of the Super Rugby standings. They cannot afford any slip-ups because home advantage counts for almost everything in the knockout stages of Super Rugby. Given what happened last year, when they were condemned to an away final against the Hurricanes, the Lions need no reminding.They also don't need to be alerted that they are up against a team who, through their pluck and commitment to attack, have won many admirers this season.Both teams' struggle histories through promotion to and relegation from Super Rugby have also spiced up their clashes over the last few years."We've got the respect for the Kings, the way they performed. They pushed every team and they won some matches," said Lions coach Johan Ackermann after he selected a near full -strength team for this assignment."We must look at ourselves as well, we still have positions to fight for. We are at home and we want to keep momentum," he said, knowing that his side trailed the unbeaten Crusaders by just three log points before this weekend.As things stand, the Lions can still top the standings but they will need to win their remaining matches against the Kings and the Sunwolves at home, and the Sharks in Durban. The Crusaders have a tougher run-in with matches against the Highlanders at home and a potentially treacherous trip to the Hurricanes.Ackermann assembled his team in the knowledge that the South African conference takes a break from the competition next week.Although the Kings will be without captain Lionel Cronje, who has a jaw fracture, Ackermann expects them to be fired up."There definitely is no lack of motivation from their side. It is almost similar to where we were a few years ago. Nobody gives them a chance. Look at (Chris) Cloete, (Lionel) Cronje and (Makazole) Mapimpi who suddenly became South Africa A players and now they are looked at by other franchises."Equally, Lions captain Warren Whiteley, who was installed as Springbok captain this week for the series against France, was under no illusions about the challenge the Kings will present today. "They play as a unit and for each other. That makes them dangerous."If there was any suggestion that the Lions, who have nine players in Allister Coetzee's 31-man Bok squad to play France, have their minds on that assignment, coach and captain offered sobering rebuttals."We spoke about this in the week, the need to stay focused. If your mind is not here, you are going to get your hardest shot. The players know what we are expecting," said coach Ackermann."It is business as usual for me," reassured Whiteley. "This is where it started for us. We have huge respect for that. It starts at training and then your attitude in the game on the weekend. I believe everyone's attitude is right."I'm not going to let anyone down this weekend. I am not going to allow that," Whiteley offered as an ominous parting shot.