TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)There's more than enough work to keep you busy, so try not to take on any new responsibilities until further notice. Keep in mind that whatever you start now is likely to be fraught with delays and disruptions for at least the next week. Not only that - power struggles at work will also add to your frustrations. So for now, concentrate on priorities and keep your opinions to yourself.GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)This could be the day that a delicious stranger pitches up on the doorstep and sweeps you off on an exotic trip. More likely is that you lock yourself in your room, convinced the universe is picking on you. This is not the case. Think of yourself as a caterpillar, slowly turning into a butterfly. And that's not the kind of thing you particularly want to do in public. Take some time out.CANCER (June 21 - Jul 22)There's more energy here than you've had in ages and you hardly know what to do with yourself. The result? You're either running your own private Comrades, or you're running everyone else's life unasked. Either choice is trouble unless you can stand still and listen. Rule one: never help unless you're asked. Rule two: make a plan for each day until your boundaries are back in place.LEO (Jul 23 - Aug 22)Put down the knee pads and crash helmets. This is not a good time to be breaking records or climbing Everest. Very important long-term changes are happening to you all by themselves. Meanwhile, your judgment has gone out the window. So leave the big decisions - divorce, marriage, emigration - until you're feeling stronger. You're changing now. Let the process complete itself.VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sep 22)There's that tedious voice again, telling you how dumb you are and warning you of failure and guilt. Pay no attention. Self-expression and your personal form of creativity are champing at the bit. Let them out. Have the courage to let them direct themselves. Be willing to expand your boundaries and to be astonished at the results. Prepare for a trip; one in which romance is guaranteed.LIBRA (Sep 23 - Oct 22)That tumultuous relationship seems to have become a test of wills. Use this week to clarify your boundaries and tilt the scales in your favour. But first you have to decide what you want. There's something magical about make-ups after break-ups. But don't kid yourself. There's nothing healthy about ongoing torment. So make your wishes known. Then clear the way for a new project.SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)If the love life really is collapsing, prepare for the kind of emotional trauma that makes you feel truly alone. Not that this need be the obvious result. One option is to change the nature of your relationships, rather than the people in them. The other is to toughen up and become the warrior you truly are. The third is to learn to appreciate your own company so that it's enough for you.SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)If you're looking for love, expect to find it in places that inspire your spiritual side. If you're already involved, arrange a vacation with the lover, preferably far from home. Either way, spend some time thinking about what you really want - in relationships, in life, in love. Use the energies well, and this could turn out to be the most romantic time of your life. There's an adventure to be had.CAPRICORN (Dec 22 - Jan 19)At last, a chance to make some decisions. Something big is happening at home, forcing you to find a balance between career and relationships. The planet of transformation has been given a massive jolt. Are you finally willing to change? Or would you like someone else to make that decision for you? Your inner magician is calling and there's no telling what it'll get up to if left to itself.AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)So all your fabulous ideas are falling on their faces. Actually, everything's going exactly according to plan. This is the time to work on and complete old stuff. From the planets' point of view, there's too much junk lying around and no space for anything new. Tasks include re-examining the old. There could be some gems you'd forgotten . C reativity cannot flow in a mess. And neither can you.PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)That heavy feeling of responsibility for others is changing into one of caring and concern. That annoying sense of duty is becoming a need to be part of something you value. This means you can release the controls and let people fly. With generosity in your heart. You're finally beginning to understand what your life was designed for and none of it has anything to do with martyrdom. Yay.ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)The health is taking a brief dive so it's probably just as well the family tensions are easing up. This doesn't mean the drama is over. Encouraging the family to become more independent is a wonderful idea, but that doesn't let you off the hook. The lesson is about offering whatever you're comfortable with - without expecting anything in return. That's the only way to really give.