The annual horse-racing event was held on a sprawling open field in eDangweni. It attracted thousands who enjoyed the races, fashion, maskandi concert and an after-party. The main event on race day attracted horses from South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland, competing for the R20,000 purse. The entire event was hosted by the Nkandla municipality and was a build-up to the big event of the season in these parts, the Dundee July.Two weeks ago, Bongi Sithole-Moloi, the MEC for arts, culture, sport and recreation, unveiled plans to expand the Rural Horse Riding Programme. Speaking at eNcombe, in Nquthu in northern KwaZulu-Natal, she said it would ensure that rural horse riding was self-sustainable and contributed to economic development and job creation in the province.The programme's flagship event is the Dundee July. Unlike the Durban July, which attracts A-listers, captains of industry, racing gurus and the rich and famous, there were no fashionistas and fancy marquees at the Nkandla event.Instead there was a long row of gazebos under which traders sold food, clothing and knick-knacks.On the makeshift track, local amateur jockeys mounted the horses. Some were barefoot and all rode bareback.The day's racing began with heats around the 1km track. Winners of the heats qualified for the main race. Dressed in blue tracksuit pants and a white vest, local jockey Ntandoyethu Dlomo, 27, rode six-year-old John, owned by his uncle."I enjoy the event. I would one day like to ride professionally," said Dlomo.He was placed third at last year's Dundee July.Nontobeko Dlamini, 38, said she and five friends hired a private vehicle to bring them to the event."The area is so rural that events like this don't happen often. We also wanted to support the riders who are riding horses from our home," said Dlamini.Food vendor Musa Mbatha, 27, said the event helped traders make some money.Special guest was IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi and the town's mayor, Thami Ntuli, presented race winners with awards.Among the artists who performed at the party after the race were Thokozani Langa, Imithente, DJ Bongz, DJ Happy Gal, Zama, TK, Mabhilidi, Skokela and Diliza.