"Lily's is a comfortable spot where locals can pop in at any time of day, be it for a quick breakfast or a lavish dinner, and enjoy good, healthy, seasonal food."Lily's follows the many food trends and themes circulating Cape Town, and the menu offers Banting and vegan options as well as more indulgent treats. "There are absolute health kicks and lavish meals."Breakfast standards include eggs Benedict and "lots of things on toast", as well as a variety of overnight oats, while lunch and dinner options range from sandwiches to steak, with Deetlefs's signature dish biltong carpaccio - made from sirloin cured inhouse and served with Parmesan and crushed avo - being a firm favourite.</img>Chef Amber-May Deetlefs. Image: SuppliedChef Amber-May Deetlefs. Image: SuppliedFun was clearly had naming the dishes, and diners can choose from options such as Epic Fish and Chips, Just Keep Slimming, Monsieur Sirloin and Please Sir Can I Have S'mores. "We tried to be creative, but I think the food and the ingredients speak for themselves," says Deetlefs.When it comes to location, you can't really beat Mouille Point, and the floor-to-ceiling glass doors, which completely fall away on a warm day, make the most of the 180 ocean views. The d cor is contemporary and chic yet playful, inspired by owner Paul Kovensky's daughter Lily. "Lily is really cute," says Deetlefs. "Paul designed the restaurant around her personality."The feature bookshelf houses ceramic dogs and horses, in an ode to Lily's love for animals, and the bright yellow cappuccino machine reflects her love of bright colours. There's also a subtle flower theme throughout the restaurant - think wallpaper as well as edible flowers in the food - inspired by Lily's love of nature.Having just opened, Lily's is proving its worth on the saturated Cape Town culinary scene and has already been packed with locals and foreigners alike."It's really attractive and has easy access for people strolling on the promenade, so we get a lot of drop-ins," says Deetlefs. "People come with their dogs, their kids, their grandmas. It's a well-priced hangout for locals in the area."