What do you do at work most days?NicHarry.com is still a small, young business, so my days involve a wide range of tasks. I spend alternating weeks in Johannesburg and Cape Town, so my days differ depending on the city. When I'm in Cape Town, where our warehouse and headquarters are, I dedicate time to product design and development as well as our e-commerce platform. I try to get into our physical retail stores as often as possible, and this means driving to the stores.Why socks?I had just sold my previous company and wanted to get into manufacturing and e-commerce. I picked a lightweight men's accessory so we could ship anywhere in the world and own the entire process, from design to sales.Retail is very much about your team, so I communicate with my team as often as possible.I try to check e-mail only during certain hours of the day, not constantly. This helps me stay on top of my to-do list and priorities.How did you end up doing the work you do?I studied journalism, politics and philosophy at Rhodes University. My first formal job out of university was at Radio 702. I've been building businesses since I was 18, but those were all things I did out of passion and a desire to create. I still had to earn a living, and media has been that for most of my formal jobs. After working at various publications I found myself deep in the social media technology space at Vodacom. I built my first website when I was about 12, so I've always been involved in the tech industry in one way or another.After Vodacom, I moved to Cape Town and raised money to build a mobile internet company.How does your background in media and tech help the work you do today?My journalism degree has been a massive help thus far. I didn't know it at the time, but understanding words and communication has become an incredibly important part of building a business. If you can't talk about your business, communicate the value you offer and promote your brand, then you're in trouble.What do you wish you had known before you started your business?I wish I had had more of a business background. Understanding the fundamentals of business has taken me years to get right. Basic cash flow management, invoicing and operational processes are hard to get right when you have a journalism degree. Cash flow is everything in business. Vanity metrics like turnover don't matter if you're not making any profit and have no money in the bank.What big work mistake led to an important lesson?Don't marry your idea. If someone is willing to buy your company and the number is close to right, then you may want to consider selling. If you are obsessed with the idea you have, you'll miss potential opportunities. Equally, it's laser focus that leads to greatness, so finding the balance is the tough part.What did you want to be when you were a child?A war correspondent. I went on to study journalism for this reason.What do you enjoy most about your job?Working with people who are as passionate about my business as I am. Mostly, I like that it's varied.What part of your job would you prefer not to do?I hate admin. I know what I'm good at, and making sure I have the receipts from my coffee meeting is not something I do willingly or easily.What is the best career advice you have ever received?It's a clich for a reason, but "fake it till you make it" really worked for me. I like to learn new things, so I'll take on any job whether I can do it or not, and learn while I'm doing it. This has pushed me to be better at things I would never have tried.What would people find most surprising about what you do?It's a grind. Selling socks and men's accessories is hugely fulfilling and fun, but [men's fashion] is a cut-throat space. So we work hard, every day, almost seven days a week, to make sure we keep ahead of the game.