Telkom spokeswoman Jacqui O'Sullivan said the computer virus attack crippled some customer platforms, which were restored only on Thursday.But the company thwarted attempts by the WannaCry hackers to freeze its systems so they could hold it to ransom.The hackers, linked by some cybersecurity analysts to North Korea, used a software tool stolen from the US National Security Agency known as EternalBlue to launch what became one of the most devastating cyberattacks in recent history. Puppy buyer loses R5,000 and identity to online thief Telkom was among many companies and organisations believed to have been targeted in South Africa, although few have been willing to admit it. IT security experts warned that further attacks were likely, and said the government and its agencies were particularly at risk due to their failure to upgrade software.EternalBlue exploits a vulnerability in Microsoft's Windows operating system. Microsoft says the vulnerability has been fixed in recent updates to Windows X.Major companies and organisations, including hospitals, in Europe, the US and Asia were crippled last week by WannaCry. In many cases victims paid the bitcoin ransom demanded by the hackers.O'Sullivan said Telkom's IT teams went on the alert during the early hours of May 13 as network traffic volumes started increasing in South Africa and elsewhere in the world."Our managed-security teams immediately began assessing, monitoring and managing the situation," she said."Throughout these attacks, our priority was the protection of our customers' data and assets. It's been quite an experience to see a virus like this in action and the sheer number of personnel hours and resources it can consume."Guy Golan, MD of cybersecurity company Performanta, in Midrand, Gauteng, described the impact of the ransomware attack as dire."Major [South African] organisations were hit. They will never talk about it because they are embarrassed and worried about the damage to their reputations," he said.Hackers steal 17 million users' data from restaurant app Zomato "If the NSA methods have been leaked into the hands of the bad guys, they will continue to use and abuse the systems to get financial reward," he said.Craig Rosewarne, of Wolfpack Information Risk, said: "Software updating is a key thing. Government is very slow [to update systems] and the state of information security in general is quite poor."Last month, Highway Hospice in Durban fell victim to a ransomware attack from a different virus to WannaCry.Hospice CEO Linda Webb said the hacker initially demanded three bitcoins - the equivalent of about R79,000 - to unlock the computer system."The first thing we did was to make contact, explaining that we care for terminally ill patients. His response was: 'OK, make it two bitcoins then,'" Webb said.The NGO was able to save some of its information, but lost its photographic archive. What is ransomware? Ransomware is code that infects and locks a computer. The user has to pay a ransom to get it unlocked. This illegal software has been around since 2005, and has been evolving.What does the hacker get out of it?Payment, usually in bitcoins (worth about $1,927 each, or around R25,740), to decrypt information and unlock the computer.How can youguard against being a victim?Making sure operating systems are regularly updated with security patches provides the most protection. Outdated operating systems are the most vulnerable.